2   THE NEW YORK WEEKLY.
their duty to call," she thought. "I suppose 
I shall have to endure the Joneses for Abagail's
sake. Melinda certainly has some taste; 
possibly I may like her," and while cogitating 
upon Melinda Jones and the expected gayeties
in Washington, she fell asleep; nor did 
Richard's step arouse her, when, about three 
o'clock, he came in from the village in quest
of some law documents he wished to see.
  Frank Van Buren would probably have 
kissed her as she lay there sleeping so quietly; 
but Richard was in a great hurry. He had 
plunged at once into business. Once there
were forty men waiting to see and consult 
"the Squire," whose reputation for honesty
and ability was very great, and whose simple
assertion carried more weight than the roundest 
oath of some lawyers, sworn upon the biggest
bible in Olney. Waylaid at every corner, 
and plied with numberless questions, he had
hardly found an opportunity to come home to
dinner, and now he had no time to waste in 
love-making. He saw Ethelyn, however, and
felt that his room had never been as pleasant
as it was with her there in it, albeit her coming 
was the cause of his books and papers be-



  And then I heard a kind o' whacking sound,
and all was silent.
  'Bout an hour arter it begun, though, and then
I knowed 'twas the voice o' a child. The poor 
creeter kept it up all night—sich moans and 
screeches I never heered. They continued until 
the dawn o' day. I'd heered o' unnat'ral parents,
but never o' any so unnat'ral as the Partens.
  Next day I felt it my duty tu keep an eye on
'em. He was goin' somewhere with a portmantel,
and she staid tu hum, The hull day I heered the
cries of the neglected infant, and in the evenin'
they was worse. At last I retired tu bed and sunk
into a agitated slumber.
  About ten I was awoke by a light on my ceilin'. 
I seen at once how 'twas Miss Parten movin' a 
lamp. I jumped up and went tu the winder.
There was a light in her chamber, and she was 
standin' there with a basket in her hand a-tyin' 
down the cover after puttin' in a brick-bat. My
blood froze in a minute; I knew what she was a 
doin'. It all rushed on me like a whirlwind; and
when I seen her put on a hat and shawl and come
out o' her door, I thought I should keel over.
  But the presence o' mind I'm remarkable for
come tu my aid, and I seized a quilt petticut o'
mine and a shawl, and put 'em on, and rushed
down tu the Gullivers' room.
  I knocked in a agitated manner, and sez she,
"What's the matter?"
  Sez I, "It ain't for no common thing I'm summoning 
you at this disrespectable hour. But it's 
your duty to wake Mr. Gulliver immediate."
  They was skeered at that, and out in the entry
in a minute. 
  "Du you want to be the humble instrument o'
preventin' parracide?" sez I. 


open his eyes instead of his pockets. No wonder
Sir Marcus objected to the payment of 
AN IRISH INNKEEPER'S BILL.
Sir Marcus Somerville was at the time a candidate
for Parliament from the county of Eastmeath, Ireland; 
and to ensure his election, he gave invitations to his
constituents to call at the principal tavern in the town
of Trim, where they might eat, drink, and be merry, at
his expense. The following is an exact copy of the bill 
which he received, after the election.
                                                                                      £    s.     d.
To eating sixteen freeholders above stairs, for 
 Sir Marcus, at 3s. 3d. a head................................  2   12   00
To eating sixteen more below stairs, and two
 clergymen after supper .......................................  1   15     9
To six beds in one room, and four in the other, 
 at two guineas every bed, three for four in a 
 bed every night, and cheap enough, God 
 knows .................................................................... 22   15   00
To twenty-three horses in the yard all night, at
 13d. every one of them, and for a man watching
  them all night ........................................................ 5    5    00
Breakfast and tea next day for every one of 
 them, and as many as they brought with 
 them, as near as I can guess ............................... 4   12   00
For beer, and porter, and punch, for the first 
 day and night, I am not very sure, but I think 
 for the three days and a half of the election, 
 as little as I can call it, and to be very exact, 
 is in all, or thereabouts, as near as I can 
 guess, and not to be too particular...................  79  15   9
To shaving, dressing, and cropping the heads 
 off 42 freeholders for Sir Marcus, at 13d every 
 one, cheap enough ............................................... 2    5    6
               (In the place of Jeremy Carr)
                                                  Brian Garratty, his Bar-boy.
  Sir Marcus declined paying the bill until he should
be convinced that all the items named had been actually
supplied. On inquiry he ascertained that the


him." "Well," answered the clerk, "I cannot give the
letter without an order from Mr. Brown."

TO P. P. CONTRIBUTORS.—A. E. J.—We have an indistinct
recollection of the article to which you refer,
and think it has appeared in the Phunny Phellow. You
may have overlooked it.......E. S. D.—The jokes you
sent us are not original.........The following articles are
respectfully declined: "Hamlet Re-dramatized;" "All
Signs Fail."

PATIENTLY WAITING.
BY MRS. MARY T. JONES.

Patiently waiting,
  Watching through tears;
Rouse thee my soul—
  Banish thy fears;
Trust in the promises
  Jesus has given;
Joys everlasting
  Await thee in Heaven.

Fading, fast fading,
  The scenes of this life;
Soon thou'lt be done
  With sorrow and strife;
Plume thy bright wings,
  For thou shalt soar
Where sorrow, where parting,
  And death come no more.


is done, plows will frequently become rusty. Those
who wish to spare themselves the trouble of polishing
a rusty mould-board in the ordinary way, should have
resource to muriatic acid, which will not touch the
iron, but will render the rust soluble and easily removed.
A furrow or two should be turned with the
plow about five minutes after the application of the
acid.

SCIENTIFIC NOTES.
IMPURE WATER.—If a pitcher of iced water be
placed in a room inhabited, and in a few hours it will absorb
nearly all the respired and perspired gases of the apartment;
but although the air is purified to a great extent
thereby, the water becomes very impure. This depends
on the fact that water has the faculty of condensing,
and thereby absorbing all the gases, which it does
without increasing its own bulk. The colder the water
is, the greater is its capacity to contain a pint of carbonic
acid gas, and several pints of ammonia. The capacity
is nearly doubled by reducing the temperature
to that of ice. Hence water kept in a room a while,
is always unfit for use, and should be always renewed,
whether it become warm or not. And for the same
reason the water in a pump-stock should all be pumped
out in the morning before any is used. That which has
stood in the morning before any is used. That which has
stood in the pitcher over night is not fit for coffee water
in the morning. Impure water is more injurious
to the health than impure air, and every person should
provide the means of obtaining fresh pure water for
domestic use.
  A NEW WAY OF CROSSING RIVERS.—An Englishman
in New Zealand has suspended a wire across the
Molyneaux river, to enable persons to cross and recross
that river. The passenger has only to seat himself in
a sort of chair, and with but little exertion on his part
he is carried across the river in a very short space of 
time.
  IMPROVED METHOD OF SAWING STONE.—Stone is


Filed June 22, 1866