Drilling a River Bed 500 Feet Underground

Huge Conduit, 20 Miles Long, to 
Protect New York From Water 
Famine, is Being Bored Through 
Solid Rock

THERE are perfectly level 
streets in New York
where a man may stand
today and not realize 
that 500 feet beneath his 
shoes other men are cutting a tunnel 
through solid rock that the city may 
have a security water supply.

New York city tunnel number two 
when finished will be a hole in the rock 
20 miles long, varying from 17 to 20 
feet in diameter, through which water 
will flow under its own pressure at the
rate of 660,000,000 to 700,000,000 gallons 
a day. The pressure of 350 pounds to 
the square inch will be powerless to 
burst from its underground channel. 
Seventeen shafts, each at least 500 feet 
deep, which now give workmen access 
to the rock, will be the only channels 
through which the water will reach 
the surface after the tunnel is finished. 
Elaborate valve machinery at the head 
of each shaft will distribute the water
as needed to municipal water mains.

City tunnel number one, the first of 
its kind in the world, was opened in 
1917 and the flow of water since has 
been uninterrupted. As the tunnel has 
been constantly full of water since it 
was opened, it has never been possible 
to inspect its rock walls. From the 
flow engineers know that there has 
been no obstruction of the 15-foot tube. 
But if, after the completion of the second 
tunnel, the future should bring a 
break in either, the city's water supply 
would be undisturbed.

The Hill View reservoir is 300 feet 
above sea level and the drop to the 
"minus 500" level of the water tunnels 
supplies the push for the system. 

Three thousand workmen above and 
below the surface are employed in excavating 
the tunnel.

A WATER tunnel shaft head is simply 
a hole in the ground surrounded 
by a group of dingy shacks - an office,
an air compressor shed and the workmen's 
locker room, affectionately 
known as "the hoghouse," because the 
workmen engaged in the first part of 
the operation of sinking a shaft are 
called sandhogs.

The hole is not particularly wide=
from 14 to 18 feet in diameter, and 
when the hoist, or elevator, is at the 
surface it looks about as impressive as 
the entrance to a basement.

To get a real idea of what "minus 
500" means and why water tunnels cost
$65,000,000 a throw, the taxpayer 
should equip himself with rubber boots 
and an introduction to one of the engineers 
in the field. He should then 
journey out to the section office at the 
shaft head. A quiet, smiling engineer 
will guide him onto the hoist.

The journey down is really uneventful, 
through a long shaft lined with 
concrete.

GETTING off at the bottom, at this 
point 550 feet below sea level, is 
like stepping into a shower bath. A 
certain amount of surface water always 
seeps down through the rock. This perpetually 
humid world is electrically 
lighted, and gnomes in sou'westers 
scurry about amid pumps, air pipes, car 
tracks and mazed, intricate machinery 
to carry on their war against the rock.

The war is fought outward in both 
directions from the bottom of the shaft. 
When the workers from two shafts 
meet in the bowels of the earth a section
of the tunnel is excavated.

To the north and to the south of 
the shaft bottom, then, are "headings," 
points of contact with the unconquered 
rock. Batteries of compressed air 
drills begin each assault against this 
enemy. A sort of scaffolding is erected 
so that the seven drills are brought into 
contact with the upper portion of the 
rock wall simultaneously.

The drills make circles of holes in 
the rock, each hole 12 feet deep. About
60 holes are drilled to a heading. When 
they are completed they are packed 
with dynamite. The charge is detonated. 
The rocks fall. Other holes are 
now bored in the lower section of the 
heading. This too is blown out.

Workmen equipped with crowbars, 
mount upon the "muck," or loose rock, 
and carefully pry at projections on the 
rock roof to even it up. After the scalers
comes the steam shovel, cleaning up 
the muck and loading it upon the 
square electric cars. The tracks are extended 
as the tunnel lengthens.

While the blasters and the muckers, 
the workmen who handle the rock, are 
at work at one heading, the drillers are 
preparing the opposite end of the rock 
tunnel. With luck a shaft crew may 
push the tunnel 36 feet, three 12-foot 
headings in a day of 24 hours. After the 
muck has been removed and the rock 
walls and roof roughed out, it is necessary 
to build steel or wood roof supports.

From platforms near the roof of the 
tunnel at intervals of a few hundred 
feet engineers guide the advance 
toward the other shafts. A tiny miscalculation
would send the long tunnel 
many feet off its course.

When a section of tunnel is finished 
it is given a concrete lining about a 
foot thick, not so much to resist the 
water pressure - the rock is already 
strong enough for that - as for a 
smooth, clean surface.

Engineers of the board of water supply 
estimate that the entire tunnel 
will be ready for water in four and a 
half years.

At least 13 workers were killed in 
the tunnel during 1930 and three times 
as many were injured.

The MIlwaukee Journal                         
4                    
Sunday, March 8, 1931 

[* I Enjoyed this very much.*]