12     6/18/21     THE WOMAN CITIZEN

Editorially Speaking

Dare to Do Right

THE most critical question before the world today is : Will
the nations reduce their navies, armies and armament
down to the bare needs of home defense?
The Great War demonstrated to all sensible people the
atrocity of modern warfare.  It taught the intelligent to see 
that the passing centuries have given men more skill, science
and cleverness, but no more mercy.  One is unable to think
of another war without a shudder, for "mankind has never
held such power of wholesale and indiscriminate slaughter." 
Most European nations are on the brink of bankruptcy and
yet the tax burden is made still more oppressive by the continued
necessity for carrying forward the preparation for
possible future wars.  Practical minded people are asking
"Why more wars?  Have we not had enough?"  The answer
is well-nigh unanimous.  Yet the heartsick old world, "war
weary and war torn," is growing desperate while waiting for
a forward movement.
Americans will find the reason for the delay pretty close
to home.  The League of Nations was brought into existence
to stop war and for no other reason.  Its aim was to achieve
this end chiefly through arbitration and a reduction of armament.
The writing is clear even to the man who runs that
some of the nations cannot disarm and make ready for permanent
peace, while others proceed with a military program
and make ready for war.
Disarmament in any degree must be supported by a compact
of nations in order to ensure the sincerity of good intentions
of each and all.
The United States declined to enter the League and those
possessed of authority in the matter doubtless believed they
had justifiable cause for the action they took.  The wrong
done to the world by this act lay not in the refusal to enter
the League of Nations, but in the failure to offer any frank
decisive counter proposal or even a responsible intimation
that it would fall in with any disarmament program.

THERE has been much oratorical acclaim that these American 
people are no more inclined to war than others, but it
must not be forgotten that these numerous rhetorical periods
have been backed by no definite promise to do any one thing
to bring about the abolition of war.  On the contrary, the 
United States to all onlookers seems headed toward an increase
and not a decrease of armament.  Silent concerning
any cooperation toward reduction of military power, it sets
a positive example on behalf of more military power.
The House has passed the enormous naval budget of $396,000,000 
in the midst of much talk that the United States 
should aim to have the largest navy in the world.  The Senate
has passed the same bill with an addition of $100,000,000 to
this budget.  The bill now goes to conference to seek an agreement
between the two Houses.  Sixteen battleships are under
way.  Suddenly the headlines announced on May 26 that
the Borah resolution, long pending and offered anew as an
amendment to the Naval Appropriation Bill, had passed the
Senate unanimously.  The resolution was a request to the
President to invite Great Britain and Japan to a disarmament
conference.
As one wise man put it, the "ominous thing about it was
that it passed unanimously."  Clearly, no one dared vote
against it, and it was a manifest sop to constituents who were 
doubtless protesting against the naval program. 
Such a resolution is not binding upon the President and 
neither this nor any other country has had any public assurance 

that he would call such a conference even though
requested by both Houses.
The passing of the resolution however has had an effect.
The Disarmament Commission of the League of Nations 
which should have met in May and was postponed to June
20, is not postponed to July 10, in order to give the United
States a chance to move if it will.  The consideration of the
Naval Appropriations bill proceeds and no one in authority
has suggested that it be shelved until the proposed conference
is held.  At this juncture Senator Walsh of Montana offered
another amendment of the Naval Appropriations bill to the
effect that an American representative be appointed on the
Disarmament Commission of the League of Nations representing
some forty nations, setting forth that this would not
mean American recognition of the League but that it would
give an indication that this nation intended to cooperate in
the proposed world program of disarmament.  The amendment
was defeated by an almost strictly party vote, no Republicans
voting for it.  The House is now considering the
Borah amendment.
The United States may recover its lost leadership in the
movement to abolish war and it may cover itself with glory
in the achievement of a program now unknown, but at the
present moment the clearest fact in the political firmament is
that the United States of America is the chief obstacle to
world disarmament.  It refuses to lead, to follow or to cooperate
with other nations for disarmament ;  and it insists upon
a larger armament than it has ever had.  The people who
pay the bills should give heed to this inexplicable situation. 
Better let your Congressman hear from you.     C. C. C. 


14     7/16/21     THE WOMAN CITIZEN

Editorially Speaking

"It Is the War"

A strange thing has happened.
On July 2, 1921, ninety thousand people, two thousand
of them being women, gathered within an arena built
for the purpose at a cost of $250,000 in Jersey City to witness
a prize fight!  It was called a "boxing match" , but the head
trainers of each contestant said on interview that it was a 
prize fight and the press referred to it continually as "the
fight."
For years the moral and civilized elements of our
population have been endeavoring to make prize fighting
illegal.  They had succeeded so far that most states had
passed laws making it impossible to stage a prize fight within
their domain.  This form of brutality was driven from city to
city and state to state until it was thoroughly ostracized
in respectable communities.
Then came a search for a town in which the Dempsey-Carpentier
fight would be allowed and Jersey City appeared
to be the only favorable spot in the country.  Even here, the
question of legality had to be decided by the courts.
Then an immense arena was built to accommodate the contest.
The cheapest seat was $5.50 and very many sold at $50.
So popular was the appeal that the total gate receipts wer
$1,600,000 and the "thirty acres" of humanity which composed
the audience came in unheard of throngs, by trains, by
ships, by airplanes, by automobiles and on "shanks' horses."
Government agents were at all entrances to collect the tax on
tickets, which amounted to $15,000. 
Dempsey, the champion, got $300,000; Carpentier, his defeated
contestant, got $200,000, and the manager made
$300,000 profit.  All three must pay a heavy income tax to 
the government, the total government tax from all sources
being estimated at one million dollars. 

THE Governor of New Jersey was there.  Some ninety members 
of the House and several senators cam up from
Washington.  "Official life in Washington was represented
by ambassadors and diplomats of many nations."  The
special envoy from Great Britain to Peru, changing ships in 
the port of New York, regarded it as a piece of luck that he
could attend the fight.  "Army and Navy officers seemed to
have come from all over the country."  "The fashionable
seaside resorts sent large delegations".  "New York Society
was prominently represented," and many paragraphs of well-known
names associated with high finance were printed to
prove the announcement.  One man came from China purposely
to see the fight.
"Detailed descriptions were flashed from the ring-side by
every means known to modern science.  Telegraph, wireless
and wireless telephone were used.  Around the bulletin
boards of all great cities other throngs of people numbering,
it was estimated 500,000 read minute by minute the development
of the struggle.  An aero-marine flying-boat made a fast
trip when it was over and caught the first ship en route for
Europe in order to deliver the films of the fight to be reproduced
on the other side.
On July 3, the Sunday papers contained page after page
of accounts of the fight.  Noted correspondents gave their
versions and comments.  In the pulpits clergymen who had
seen the fight "in order to understand it" preached their
astonishment at what had happened.  One poor fellow went
crazy with excitement over it.  A well-known Paris correspondent
described the intense Parisian interest in "the fight," 
and climaxed it with :  "The bitter disappointment of Carpentier's
defeat spreads over the French metropolis a pall of 

deeper blue than Manhattan ever knew."  Women, gathered
in the Carpentier home to hear the news, wept in sympathy,
for Paris regarded the defeat as a "national disgrace".  It
comforted its wounded pride with the comment "We beat the
Germans anyway".  Some shouted "Revenge, revenge".
The movie men were everywhere present and lost no move
of either pugilist.  In every city of the world the contest
will be fought over again in the movie theaters and other
millions will stare open-eyed at the sight.  Thus the one-time 
ostracized and condemned prize fight will be brought
before millions of men and women of many nations carrying
with it whatever influence for good or ill the prize fight
arouses.
The description used such expressions as "he landed a
broadside on the jaw"; "he knocked him to the floor"; "the
professional bruiser landed another blow";  "knocked him 
flat with a broken thumb in the fourth round as the amphi-theater
rung with the plaudits of the acres of men and
women."
This is not a description of anything civilized;  it is the
kind of thing which belongs to the stone age.
What means this worldwide revival of emotional interest
in a contest of skilled brute force between two men which
has so possessed the attention of our people?  The same
papers which told the story of the prize fight carried the
news that duelling, an almost forgotten brutality before the
great war, has been revived in Europe and that hundreds 
of duels are being fought.  In our country cruelty and inhumanity
have marked the recent forms of crime.
In France when anything out of the usual happens one
hears the universal explanation, "It is the war".
Well, are not all these things a phase of the aftermath of
the war?  Are they not the normal result of the coarsening,
dulling, brutalizing effects of war?  If not, why was
prize fighting anathema in 1914, while in 1921 our nation
goes mad over it?
Why did respectable people condemn it in 1914 and why
do they condone it now?  Why did law makers vote out prize
fighting before 1914, and their successors in 1921 join in the
great crowds whose presence gives approval?  Strange psychology.
We fought for civilization, in the great war, we are told;
but some of the refinements of civilization seem to have been
lost on the way.
CARRIES CHAPMAN CATT.

Three Forward Steps

THREE things have happened lately which may well relieve
the tense, depressing anxiety which many millions
of Americans have experienced during the past two
years.
First, peace between our country and its late enemies at
war has been declared, two years and eight months after the
armistice at which time actual war ceased.  To be sure, there
is a difference of opinion as to whether the method adopted
was honorable, diplomatic or far-seeing, and further no 
treaty has been drawn to define relations between our own and
our late enemy countries ;  nevertheless it was with a sigh of
relief that the average citizen read that President Harding
had signed the Knox peace resolution and that at last we are
technically as well as actually at peace.
Second, the Army Appropriation bill has passed Congress
and has been signed by the President, cutting the appropriation
for the army down to $328,000,000 and reducing the
arm to 150,000 men.
Third, the Borah amendment to the Naval Appropriation 

