LET US DIE ARMENIANS.
____
[From the Armenian of Archbishop Khorène 
Nar-Bey de Lusignan.]
BY ALICE STONE BLACKWELL.
___
Brothers, we have no hope from foreigners;
Gaze not around for aid! Though with goodwill
The foreigner receive you as a guest, 
He is an alien still.

Unmoved he sees your pain; what matters it
Although to tears of blood your heart be 
grieved ?
None save Armenians feel Armenia's woes.
Why are you still deceived?

Rest not upon the foreigner your hope; 
Show not to cruel eyes your deep distress.
Do you then look for sympathy and help?
They mock your nakedness!

Heavy your burden is, but do you think
That foreign hands will lift it? You are
wrong.
Nay, leave the foreigner, lend brother's arm
To brother, and be strong!

Fate is your enemy? Be not dismayed,
But show Armenian hearts, to brave her hate.
Fate cannot vanquish an heroic land
That battles against fate.

Nor swords nor chains could crush the minds
and hearts
Of your ancestors, those valiant ones.
Why are your hearts to-day so weak and faint?
Are you not heroes' sons?

Sons of those matchless heroes who of old
Upon their country's altar bled and died-
Sons of those great Armenians whose lives
To-day are the world's pride?

Even the mighty nations of the earth
With envy view our nation's history.
Then why, forgetting your past glory, say
To aliens, "Blest are ye"?

Forward! Let him who has an earnest heart
Forsake the stranger, follow his brave sires!
The life of all Armenians centres round
Religion's altar-fires.

Armenia's life shall not become extinct;
The heavens are full of that life-giving flame.
While the all-conquering cross of Christ shall
reign.
So long shall live her name.

Why are you fearful? See you not, sublime
Above your heads, the shadow of the rood?
Of old your fathers with that sacred sign
Mingled their sacred blood.

Anchor your hope, too, on the cross! Have
faith
The light will shine, since you to it are true.
It was your nation's bulwark; be it still
Weapon and flag to you!

A nation that was faithful to the cross
Cannot be lost, though centuries roll past.
While in the world religion shall endure,
Her life shall also last.

In the great names of faith and fatherland,
Clasp hands in love, bid hate and malice flee,
Armenian brothers! Let the nation's foe 
Alone accursed be.

Let each heart glow with love for fatherland,
Each mind your country's welfare seek alone;
Let your least brother's pain and tears be felt
As keenly as your own.

Ah! foreign bread can never nourish us,
And foreign water never quench our thirst;
Thou art our life, Armenian font, where we
Received baptism first!

For no vain hope let us deny that font,
Our nation's baptistery! When we yield
Our breath forever, be our place of death
The holy battlefield.

Let the same earth receive that cradled us;
Armenians we, when life to us was given;
Armenians let us live, Armenians die,
Armenians enter heaven!
  Woman"s jou...y 7.1894

$1.00; in paper, 50 c
The Royal Cook Book.  Compiled by The
Light Bearers' Circle of The King's Daughters.
Receipts, tried and tested, practical and 
economical, for the Home Makers and the House
Keepers of the Order.  Paper.  Price, 25 cents.

Address, I.C. DAVIS,









....The Congregationalist has further facts in reference
to the forty-two Armenians whose names have been 
stricken from the rolls of the Congregational churches in
 Fresno, Cal.  We are glad to say that three other churches
in the town have opened their doors to them, altho their
pastor, who was active in the removal, impugns their 
honesty and veracity.  It appears to be a simple case of
contemptible caste prejudice.  We give elsewhere the 
condemnatory action of Congregational ministers in 
California.

N.Y. Independent                  June 14, 1894.

inspectors that Stundist children refsed to join the
ordinary religious exercises of the school, but that their chief
 offenses were not crossing themselves or doing obeisance
 to the icon with which every school is supplied.  The
 inspectors took the matter to the Ministry of Education and 
the Minister to the Synod with the result that an ordinance
 has been published and sent to all schools in the provinces 
where Stundists reside directing the teachers to enforce the 
crossing and bowing, and if the Stundist children prove
contumacious they are to be expelled summarily.

....The Congregational Ministers' Union, of Los Angeles
 and vicinity, just organized, have voted to ask the
 publication of the following resolution in THE INDEPENDENT:

"At a meeting of twenty-two Congregational ministers at Los
 Angel, Cal., June 4th, answering a call for the formation of a 
Congregational Ministers' Union, after a full discussion of the
 subject, the following resolution was unanimously adopted:

""Resolved, That as Congregational ministers we condemn the
 action of the Congregational Church and pastor at Fresno, in its
recent dealing with its Armenian members, as uncongregationa
 and unchristian.'
"It may be added that these ministers had ample knowledge of 
 this subject, as the Rev. Dr. Robert G. Hutchins, pastor of the
 First Congregational Church in Los Angeles, was a member of
 the recent Council in the Fresno church, and has the documents
 of the case.  J.B. IRVINE, Jr., Scribe.

"Los Angeles, June 14, 1894."
We understand that the church pastor at Fresno 
stubbornly refuse to follow the advice of the council called to
 consider the case.
--------


Dr. Mary Bradford wrote from Tabriz, Persia, March 1:
 "Weddings are thick and fast these days, for only about ten days remain
 until both the Armenian and Mussulman fasts and then
 they can not get married until they are over.  My Yagoot
 (the Armenian woman who lives with me) is marrying her son and it
is his betrothal I am to attend to-day.  A sister of my cook came
 this morning and asked if I was willing for her to marry her
 brother.  This might indicate a peculiar state of society, but it 
 simply means that there always has to be a third person in the
matter and she was the go-between. It seemed funny to have my 
cook say "they had asked me first and it all depended on whether
 I would give my consent.' When I found the girl selected was
 only eleven year old, I told them I could not approve and although
 I supposed their asking me was only a matter of form, yet they 
say they will have only the engagement now and postpone
 the wedding till a proper time.
"Last night I attended an Armenian wedding, and how I wished 
some of the home friends could have been with me.  Could you
 imagine forty-four people in a room fifteen by twenty, seated 
around the sides of the room and eating their dinner which is
 spread in the center of the room.  A large table cloth is spread 
and the waiters have to walk on it to bring in the food.  There is 
often a row of little children also down the center.  I am afraid
it would be hard work for people to crowd up so closely unless
 they had been used to it all their lives.  When we first go, the
  bride appears in very common clothes, and has a red veil over
 her face.  She is often busy about the house, but if not, stands in
 one corner of the room as motionless as a statue.  All her be-
longings, from dresses to needles, playthings and soap,
 are brought our in neat packages.  These are opened and contents shown to
 the guests and counted.  Comments are made as to beauty, num-

ber, quality, etc.  Many times they exclaim ‘may they be blessed.'
"Then the time is often taken up with dancing, and at last a 
fife and drum are heard, which announce that the clothes for the
 bride have been sent by the bridegroom.  They are brought in on 
a large tray which is often adorned with large pieces of sugar,
oranges and red apples.  The woman who comes with them shows 
them to the company and when the tray is empty, the bridegroom's 
clothes are put on it.  Often a large piece of rock candy or something 
very sweet is hidden in one of the pockets and then with
music they are sent to the groom. Now the priest comes in and
 blesses the clothes and the the bride may go and put them on.
  After she is dressed she comes in and kneeling before each guest
makes a bow and the special friends lift her veil and kiss her on
 each cheek.  Then dinner is served and again dancing takes up
 the time until the bridegroom comes with his friends and they go
 to the church to be married.  Then they go to the home of the
husband and often it is almost morning when the guests go home.
We always enjoy going, though we do not often stay to see the whole thing out."

Interior, .

July, 1894

le Badge-Silver
Cross,       ........  30 Cts.

LIST, PINS, WITH-
OUT BADGE.

Watch Chain, with
.......................................75c.
Bar Pin..........................30c.
Bow Knot, Stick Pin,
n ......................................40c.
Bow Knot, Catch Pin,
able enamel on silve 35c.
Bar and Chain........... .50c.
Sword, Stick Pin.......  25c.
Crown, Catch Pin...... 25c.
Shepherd's Crook.... 15c
Scroll Bar Pin . .......... 25c.
-Linked Circles,
ch Pin .... .......................30c.
-Heart, Catch Pi....n. 25c.
-Ornamental Catch
...... ................................ 30c.
with Catch Pin in the 
k ................... .............  50c.

Pins and Chains
Sterling

d
Hurting
. .  ......... .0
to save
. .  ....... .03
off Gar-
. .         .05
Practical
n of the
. . .       .03
or,"     .05
nd Sons
r k .    . 05
RM, 20 CTS

KS
acin Ribbon
ble, Mrs. Mary
"If we had
t reminder of 
the Conse-
throughout the
PHOTO-

ME.
NSON,
S DAVIS.
photographs
eneral work. 

PER DOZEN