earned so that it could be reasonably paid. They
were taking as assets things which were not
assets, and they could not realise a considerable
amount of what they had put down as such. He
dealt, with two or three of these items, including
the alterations to premises, and additions, &c.
There was in all companies he belonged to a
depreciation fund, and they had nothing like 
a reserve for depreciation which such a company
should have. It did not appear  to him wise to
pay a dividend of 6 per cent., though it only made
an average of 4 1/2. (The CHAIRMAN : Why don't
you take the average from the beginning; you
know the reason why 2 1/2 was paid.) Well, the
rule all companies adopted was to take an average
of the three years last passed, and on that ground
he spoke. If they took the previous years, and
divided them, it would not come to very much
more. He urged the reduction of outstanding
liabilities, and said that nearly every item of
expenditure had been reduced, the exception being
the renewal of furniture, and he had no doubt
that the money was properly laid out. Then he
noticed that the directors' fees were not reduced.
The fees were voted by the shareholders when
there were five directors, and by some means----
    A SHAREHOLDER : There have never been five.
    Mr. LIAS: Then excuse me saying that you
have issued reports which you now disavow.
There were five directors on the original prospectus, 
there were five in the first annual report,
and on the second year's report. Mr. Lias said
when the motion for £150 was adopted, there
were five--l30 a year, which, considering the
average dividend, was a very reasonable one. One
or two hotels here had reduced their directors to
save expense, but they had only four directors for
the last two or three years, and they had
swallowed up the whole of the £150. This opened
up a question for the shareholders, whether it was
wise to have so small a board as four. He thought
that five were not too many to manage an hotel
like that. The Queen's Hotel had seven, other
hotels had five; the Hydropathic, a much smaller
affair, had five, and if they were only going to
have four here, it would be better to take the
L30 apiece, and, then, in losing a director's
services, they would gain something on the other
side. Now, they were losing his services and influence, 
and yet paying exactly the same as if


June 26/90

A WONDERFUL BABOON.

    Jack the Baboon, so well known to all who have ever had occasion to pass
through the Uitenhage (Cape Colony) Railway station, has (says a writer in
the Colonies and India) gone to that bourne from which no baboon ever
returns, much to the regret of the country side. Jack was one of the most
intelligent specimens of the ape tribe ever captured, and he was regarded as
quite a regular railway employé at Uitenhage. Hi took his turn at working the
signals and shoving trolleys about. When required to do so, he would go to his
master's cottage, hunt for and find any article required and then, after carefully
locking the door, he would remove the key, and bring both it and the article
he was sento to fetch to his master. The latter had lost both his legs,
and consequently found Jack a valuable helpmate. The baboon was also
noted through the district as a fair light-weight boxer, and he had also
been trained to use the singlestick with singular adroitness. He never drank
anything stronger than water, and was unmarried.

A BOON TO SMOKERS