NEW-YORK  DAILY  TRIBUNE,   SUNDAY, APRIL 23
Anglo-American Memories.
XII.
(Copyright, 1909, by George W. Smalley.)
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON.
London, April 13,
In explaining why Phillips was the target for
every shot in the winter of 1860-'61, I said it 
was because he was the real leader of the anti-slavery
party during all the later and more
critical years of the long struggle for freedom.
No doubt, Garrison at one time held the first
place among Abolitionists.  He was the first
of them in time, or one of the first.  He had had
the good fortune to be mobbed and led through
the streets of Boston with a rope about his
body.  He had founded a weekly paper, "The
Liberator."  Georgia had offered $5,000 reward 
for his arrest.  He had unflinching courage and
needed it all in the 30's and later.  But he had
very moderate abilities.  His force was a moral
force.  He had convictions and would go any
length rather than surrender any one of them.
But he had almost no other of those gifts and
capacities which make a leader.  He had no
organizing power.  He was not a good writer.
He was not a good speaker.  He could not hold
an audience.  He could not keep the attention
of the public which he had won in the beginning
He did not attract to the Abolitionist
ranks the ablest of the men who were ready to
make a fight against slavery.  They did not
care to serve under Garrison--under a leader
who could not lead.   They went into politics.
So it happened that the Abolitionists had become
a dwindling force.  If Phillips had not
appeared on the scene, with his wonderful oratory,
his natural authority on the platform and
off,  his brilliant love of battle, his temperament,
at once commanding and sympathetic, his persuasive
charm--the Abolitionists would have
been well nigh forgotten.  He had all the moral
force of Garrison, and the intellectual force
which Garrison had not. 
Phillips himself would never allow this to be
said if he could help it.  He recognized Garrison
as leader, and was perfectly loyal to him.  So
far as he could, he imposed his own view on the
public.  It was so abroad as well as at home.
When Garrison cam to London a meeting was
held in St.  James's Hall in his honor.  Mr.
Bright spoke and others spoke, hailing the worn-out
champion as the herald of American Emancipation,
which perhaps he was.  Boston, which
has periods of generous penitence, gave him
$30,000;  others than Bostonians paying part of
the money;  and accepted a bronze status and
put it up--I forget where.  It has ever since been
the fashion to recognize Garrison as the moral
educator of the North on the slavery question;
the schoolmaster of his period.  Very possibly
my liking for Phillips warped my opinion at the
time.  But now, after all these years, I think
myself impartial, and my view is what I hear
from others.  I had a knowledge of the situation.
If it is a wrong view, why was Phillips
and not Garrison the shining mark at which the
pro-slavery people aimed in those critical years
from 1854 to 1861?  No other view will explain
that. 
When I used to express an impatient opinion
of Garrison, and Phillips's submission to him,
I was rebuked for it.  Said Philips:
"You are unjust and you do not know the
facts, or you do not make allowance for them.
Like other young men, you are of to-day.  Garrison's
work had been done before you were
old enough to know anything about it, and he
is for all time.   I don't say there would have
been no Abolitionist movement but for Garrison,
since Abolition was in the air, and the anti-slavery
fight had to be fought.  It would have
been fought in a different way without him,
and perhaps later.   You underrate the moral
forces and Garrison's capacity as a leader.  He
was a leader, and is.  Intellectual gifts to not
make a leader.   The soldier whom other soldiers
follow into the breach, and to death, need not
be a great captain, nor understand the art of
war.   What he understands is the art of getting
himself killed, and of inducing the men behind
him to do the same.   Garrison took his life in
his hand.   For many years he was leader of a 
forlorn hope.   He held extreme views.   He had
to hold them.  He drove men away from the 
Abolitionist camp.   They were better elsewhere.
He was not a politician, but politics were not
what he wanted, nor what the cause wanted.
What it wanted was inspiration, and that is
what it got from Garrison."
I have put this in quotation marks, but I do
not mean that Phillips said it all at once, nor
perhaps in these words.   But the passage reproduces
as accurately as I can the substance of
what I have heard him say in many talks about
Garrison.   I do not expect anybody to accept
my view against Phillips's.   But I must give my
own, right or wrong.  I saw something of Garrison,
publicly and privately.   I had no dislike
for him, but neither had I any enthusiasm.  As
I recall the impressions of those days, it seems
to me that I have never known a man of so
much renown as Garrison with so slight an
equipment for the business of leadership, or even
or apostleship.   When I try to sum him up, I
am embarrassed by the want of material.  After

was common to both, and the absence of accurate
knowledge.  They did not master their
subjects nor their trade.
As to what Garrison did, I am quite willing
to accept that the history of his time as it is commonly
told.   I take all that for granted;  all his
services to the anti-slavery cause, and, with
all drawbacks, they were great.   Still I do not
think they explain his immense fame.   He was
a Captain of the army of the Lord, if you like,
but a Captain who won no battles.   There was
one final victory, based on a long series of defeats,
a victory in which he had a share, though
not a great share.   Perhaps a better Saint than 
Captain,  but in Rome's long catalogue of the
canonized how many first rate names are there?
You can become a saint quite cheaply if you
know how.   There are fifty or more huge volumes
of the AEta Sanctorum,  mostly lies, yet
extremely interesting as examples of the use to
which the human imagination can put fo[?]
ecclesiastical purposes.   A Benedictine labou[?]
ere yet science had shaken the foundations of
clerical fairly tales by its demand for evidence.
The acutest minds accepted them.   So late as
the nineteenth century they were still accepted.
After his "conversion,"  Newman, perhaps the
finest mind of his time, swallowed whole all the
fictions to which the Church of Rome had given
the imprimature of infallibility.   Garrison's exploits
are less legendary,  but are they much
more substantial?   His fame rests on generalities.
To look at, he was neither soldier nor saint.
He had not, on the one hand, the air of command,
nor, on the other, the sweetness of benignity
we expect from one of the heavenly
host.   His face was both angry and weak.   His
attitude of the platform was half apologetic
and half passionate.   His speech at times was
almost shrewish.   It was never authoritative,
though always self-complacent.   So was the expression
of his face, with its smile which tried
to be amiable and succeeded in being self-conscious.
There was no fire in his pale eyes;  if
there had been, his spectacles would have dulled
it.   He stooped, and his most vehement appeals--
they were often extremely vehement--came to
you sideways.   It was an unlucky effect, for
there was nothing shifty or crooked in the
man's nature.   But he had a role to play--
Isaiah, if you like--and played it as well as his
means would allow.
It was the indomitable honestly of the man
which gave him such authority as he had.   That
is not a bad eulogy in itself.   Bad or good
nothing I can say will diminish his reputation
nor do I wish it should.   When a legend he
once grown up about a man it keeps on growing.
It has been decreed that Dickens shall be
a great novelist, and Gladstone a great states
man, and Browning a great poet, and Herbe[?]
Spencer a great philosopher.    Each of these men
was great in other ways, but the legend is in
vincible.   So, no doubt, with Garrison.   He will
remain the Liberator of the Slave.   By the
time the cold analysis of History reverses that
verdict,  personal partialities will have ceased
to count.                                            G.  W.  S.