The 
[?an's] Journal 

PUBLISHED 47
YEARS CONTINUOUSLY. 
OLDEST SUFFRAGE
NEWSPAPER IN 
THE WORLD
 
Founded in 1870 by Lucy Stone and Henry B. Blackwell. 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS, MARCH 24, 1917     PRICE THREE CENTS

Russian Revolution 
Brings Mme. Breshkovsky 
Back from Exile

Little Grandmother of the Revolution Invited to 
Return From Siberia by Special Action of 
Duma After Thirty Years of Persecution 

HAS BEEN CEASELESS WORKER 
FOR RUSSIAN FREEDOM 

The news from Russia has brought joy to all the friends of freedom. 

One item in the great story has been read with especial delight by many 
Americans. This is the announcement that the new Minister of Justice has invited 
home from Siberia Mrs. Catherine Breshkovsky, known to thousands by
the affectionate name of Babushka, the "grandmother" of the revolution—
"the miracle woman," as the Siberian peasants call her. For years she has 
been hounded and persecuted. Now the Duma has appointed a committee to 
escort her back to Russia, where a great ovation awaits her. 

When Mrs. Breshkovsky visited America 
in 1904 she made a deep impression 
upon all who became acquainted with
her. Her friends are now recalling the 
main facts of her remarkable life—a
life carrying a lesson for all who are 
working for human freedom in any line
and anywhere. 

Tried to Apply Christianity

Here was a woman who never feared
to "take part in politics." A daughter
of the nobility, her heart was always
with the peasants. To an American 
friend she said: 

"My mother was deeply religious. Ignoring 
the false pomps of the Greek
Church, she tried only to impress on her
children the ethical teachings of Christ. 
The incongruity between those teachings 
and our life soon bewildered me. 
My mother told me to treat the servants 
as brothers and sisters, but when she 
found me chatting in the great kitchen
she sternly told me that I must not forget 
my place as a nobleman's daughter. 
She taught me Christ's command to 
give away all that I had and follow him, 
but when the next morning I went out
and gave my handsome little cloak to a 
shivering peasant child, again she sharply 
reproved me. I had long spells of 
thinking. 

"My father helped me think. He was 
a man of broad, liberal ideas. We read
together many books of science and 
travel. Social science absorbed me. I 
saw the poor, degraded serfs around me, 
and longed to see them free. Filled with 
young enthusiasm, I opened a little
school near our estate." 

Horrors Following Emancipation 

Then came the emancipation of the 
serfs, but at first it made the people's 
lot worse rather than better. Under 
the old regime each serf had had a plot 
of ground on which he raised food for 
his family. He had supposed that this 
bit of ground would still belong to him 
after he was free. Instead, he was 
driven from it and placed upon a small 
strip of the poorest soil to be free and 
starve. Mrs. Breshkovsky said: 

"He was bewildered; he could not 
imagine himself without his old plot of 
land. In dull but growing rage, he refused 
to leave his plot for the wretched 
strip. 'Masters,' he cried, 'how can I 
feed my little ones through a Russian 
winter? Such land means death.' This
cry rose all over Russia. 

"The government appointed in every
district an 'arbiter' to persuade the


peasants. The arbiter failed. Then 
troops were quartered in their huts, 
families were starved, old people were
beaten, daughters were raped. The
peasants grew more wild, and then began 
the flogging. In a village near ours, 
where they refused to leave their plots 
of land, they were driven into line on 
the village street; every tenth man was 
called out and flogged with the knout; 
some died. Two weeks later, as they 
still held out, every fifth man was 
flogged. The poor ignorant creatures
still held desperately to what they 
thought their rights; again the line, and 
now every man was dragged forward to 
the flogging. This process lasted five
years all over Russia, until at last, bleeding 
and exhausted, the peasants gave in. 

"I heard heartrending stories in my 
little schoolhose, and many more 
through my father, the arbiter of our 
district. The peasants thronged to our 
house day and night. Many were carried 
in crippled by the knout; sobbing 
wives told of husbands killed before
their eyes. Often the poor wretches literally 
grovelled, clasping my father's 
knees, begging him to search for help 
in that mysterious region—the law court. 
From such interviews he came to me 
worn and haggard.

Meets Prince Kropotkin 

"I felt that tremendous economic and 
political changes must be made; but I 
was not yet a revolutionist, only a Liberal. 
To seek guidance, to find what 
older heads were thinking, I went at 
nineteen with my mother and sister to 
St. Petersburg. Into our compartment 
on the train came a handsome young 
prince returning from official duties in 
Siberia. For hours he discussed with 
me the problems that were pressing upon 
us. His words thrilled like fire. Our
excited voices rose steadily higher, until 
my mother begged me to speak low. 
The young prince is now an old man in 
exile. His name is Peter Kropotkin. 

Classes for Women Forbidden

"In St. Petersburg I entered the central 
group of Liberals, men and women 
of noble birth and university training; 
doctors, lawyers, journalists, novelists, 
poets, scientists, the most highly educated 
people in Russia. Since higher
education for women was strictly forbidden, 
they had already become criminals 
by opening classes for women in 
the natural and political sciences. All 
these classes I eagerly joined, constantly 
attending their secret meetings. 
Again my mother grew frightened, and
at last she took me home. During the