Morning Express.
Saturday, September 1, 1877.
Let Us Consider.
A great deal has been said and is still being
said about the action of the Honorable
ALONZO B. CORNELL, Naval Officer of the
Port of New York, and Chairman of the Re-
publican State Central Committee, in call-
ing, over his own signature, the Republican
Convention for this State. Those who ap-
pear to be most interested in, or aggrieved by
this action on the part of Mr. CORNELL are
the Democratic organs, which of course want
to encourage anything that looks like a rup-
ture in the Republican party, and newspa-
pers like the New York Times, the Tribune,
the Evening Post and Harper's Weekly, which
do so out of personal ill-will towards Mr.
CORNELL and those who are supposed to
have been instrumental in procuring his ap-
pointment to the responsible position which
he now holds. These latter demand his sum-
mary suspension from office on account of
the "defiant" attitude which he has assumed
toward the administration; the Democratic
newspapers content themselves with calling
attention to the fact that Mr. CORNELL has
apparently violated an order issued by the
President, but are, of course, endeavoring to
goad the President on to suspending Mr. 
CORNELL from office.
The Washington correspondent of the 
New York Times has recently had an inter-
view with the President, in which that amia-
ble and much hand-shaken gentleman alluded 
to his so-called civil service order, praised it
as a good one, spoke of it as extremely popu-
lar, and said it would be rigidly enforced
against all persons in the service of the gov-
ernment. Being asked if he proposed to en-
force it against the Naval Officer in New
York, he declined to be questioned in detail, 
but repeated his remark that the order was a
good one, and would be rigorously enforced.
The Times correspondent had, however, 
other sources of information; and so he tele-
graphs to his journal that the action of Mr. 
CORNELL will be considered by the Cabinet
at an early day, and that, if the newspaper
reports concerning his action are found to be 
true, he will be suspended from office.
Suspended for what? For simply perform-
ing his duty by the party to which he has
always belonged, which he has always serv-
ed, and which placed Mr. HAYES in the Pres-
idential chair! To listen to the ravings of 
the administration journals about Mr. COR-
NELL's action, one might imagine that he
had proved to be a defaulter, or that he was
in league with the smugglers, or that he had
shown gross carelessness in the administra-
tion of his office. None of these things 
are so, however. Mr. CORNELL's record is
that of an honest and efficient public ser-
vant. He is to be suspended, if suspended
at all, because his devotion to the Republi-
can party is superior to his devotion to the
little clique of busybodies and impracticables
whom the President has taken into his confi-
dence, and by whose judgement--or rather 
lack of judgement--he seems disposed to be
guided. Mr. Cornell might readily retain
the position of Naval Officer if he would 
yield something of his political convictions, 
abandon the positions in the State and Na-
tional Republican Committees which were
entrusted to him last year, and fall down
and worship the new lights of reform, 
EVARTS, SCHURZ and GEORGE WILLIAM 
CURTIS. Failing to do these things, deter-
mined to pursue a manly course and to dis-
charge, to the best of his ability the trusts
confided to him by the Republican party of
[?] New York, he is to be punished
by the hand of the man for whose election
we all labored so earnestly last year!
What law has Mr. CORNELL violated?
What resolution of the Republican platform
adopted last year has he ignored or refused
to be governed by? None whatever. His
whole offense consists, first, in his being the 
friend of Senator CONKLING, and, secondly,
in his assertion of self-respect, and his deter-
mination to remain faithful to the organiza-
tion which made him Chairman of the State
Committee and a member of the National
Executive Committee, rather than to cast his 
lot with the little clique of hand-shakers and
self-styled "reformers."
The order issued by the President on the 
22d of June, and which Mr. CORNELL is
alleged to have violated, reads as follows:
"No officer should be required or permitted 
to take part in the management of political
organizations, caucuses, conventions or po-
litical campaigns. This rule is applicable
to every part of the civil service. It should 
be understood by every officer of the general
government that he is expected to conform
his conduct to its requirements." There is
no law authorizing the President to issue
any such order. There was no precedent
for it. In speaking of it, it has frequently
been called the "Civil Service Reform order"
--but it has nothing whatever to do with
civil service reform. It was not demanded
or even contemplated by the Convention
which nominated Mr. HAYES for President.
It is not sustained by the best commitment of