The Christian Advocate
Volume XXXVIII                                                                         Number 45
November 6, 1930                     SOUTHERN EDITION

GAPS IN THE MACHINERY OF PEACE

By CARRIE CHAPMAN CATT

CARRIE CHAPMAN CATT is one of America's
foremost women lecturers. For many years she was
greatly interested in suffrage for women and was a
leader in the campaign for this cause which finally succeeded
in 1920 in having the woman suffrage amendment
to the Federal Constitution Bill ratified. She is
Honorary President of the National League of Women
Voters and a member of the Woman's Committee of the
Council for National Defense.

WITHIN the past five years we have
learned three things, and learned
them well.
   1. The causes of war, which we were told
in 1925 numbered 257, now, by the application
of logic and hard study, have been
reduced to one. That one is the competition
of the war systems of nations.
   2. All possible cures of war have likewise
been reduced to one; the demobilization
of the war institution, not by
ruthless destruction, but bit by bit, as
fast and as far as it may be replaced 
by a well-constructed, successfully operating
peace institution. It must be remembered
that every nation has a war 
department, a navy department, and that the
possibility of war is the last resort of
every diplomatic act. Every nation is
prepared for war, and the entire nation
quickly slips into a condition of war
whenever a carefully spread publicity
awakes the war spirit. Wrongs, insults,
indignities committed by the opponent
are broadcast as explanations, but when
the war is over, historians discover the
sole cause to have been rivalry in war
equipment. One cause, one cure.
   3. The work yet to be accomplished 
before there will be a warless world is
the demobilization of the war system
and the mobilization of a substituted
peace system.
   Five years ago no one of us recognized
any of these three points as truths.
Now very many of us know they are incontrovertible, 
fixed facts. Yet to-day no
king, president, or prime minister would
officially acknowledge these points as
facts, since the discussion has
not gone so far in official conference,
but there are millions
of men scattered among all nations
who know these facts.
Truth spreads; what a few know
to-day, many know to-morrow.
I predict that in the year 2000,
when many conference of statesmen,
citizens and women may
be held to review the progress
of the twentieth century, the
leaders of the entire world will
then admit that Nos. 1 and 2
are undeniable facts, and that all
the peace progress of the seventy years lying
between 1930 and 2000 has strictly followed
the pronouncement of No. 3.
   
REVOLUTIONARY EVENTS

   To predict that the twentieth century
will be known to future generations as
the great peace century requires no particular
insight, since the fact appears so
plainly obvious. A single century has several
times recorded changes so fundamental
as to alter completely the trend of human
progress. It is not unlikely that at this
moment the most revolutionary events of
all human history are taking place.
   Certainly within the past ten years more
constructive progress has been made toward
permanent peace than in all the
years preceding it. A League of Nations, 
with most of the world's states in its membership,
has pledged itself to find a way
to abolish war. While it has not yet attained
its ultimate aim, no one can deny
that it has marched steadily forward in
that direction.
   A World Court, first suggested by our
nation at the Hague Conference in 1899,
and again in 1907, has been established
with fifty nation members, and we hope
with another entering soon. It provides a
place and a method for the settlement of 
all international disputes described by the
lawyers as juridical. Nations with men,
money, and munitions enough to start a
big war, or to engage in one, are now called
the Great Powers, and at present there are
six. Four of these, namely: Great Britain, 
France, Germany, and Italy, have
signed the optional clause of the Court
statute which places them under compulsion
to submit all juridical causes to this
Court. Some thirty-three nations have
signed the optional clause.
   More, in the decade just closed, the
chief nations of the world have bound 
themselves to their neighbors by additional
treaties of arbitration, all of them
important, and some truly astounding.
This has been a plan particularly respected
on the Western Hemisphere.
Several nations have treaties of arbitration
with every other nation on the two
continents. One reason, if not the chief
one, why Canada asked for independent
treaty rights was because she desired a
share in linking the two continents together
by arbitration treaties. A treaty
now pending, including all the nations 
of the Western world, making arbitration
compulsory in certain cases, will
probably become the law of these two
continents, although the process promises
the consumption of considerable
time and temper.
   The most astounding of the arbitration
treaties are the famed pacts of 
Locarno. They are more complete than
any that had preceded them, and they
bind together in compulsion to peace
the nations that occupied the
very center of the late war.
Lastly, in this marvelous evolution
of ten years, came the most
dashing and astonishing of them
all--the Briand-Kellogg Pact
renouncing war, and now signed
by fifty-one nations.

NEW FORCES FOR PEACE

   Can this be the history of the
same world in which thirty-two
nations eleven years ago were
tearing at each other's throats?
Are these the nations that then
were piling high their borrowed billions in
order to buy bigger and more destructive
munitions than had ever been known before?
As Dr, Shotwell wrote recently, we
have become "suddenly aware of vast new
forces at work for peace." Standing on
the threshold of this new decade, looking
backward, all thinking citizens must pronounce
the record a glorious and almost
unbelievable achievement. It is a reflection