altering of land capitalism "from a
fostering of special privileges to the
establishing of equal opportunities."
And, of course, he wishes to do what
Henry George, and Mr. Garrison, and
all reformers of their class have
wished, "abolish all taxation save that
upon land values."
C. W.
STATE CORRESPONDENCE.
New York.
On December 22 Governor Hughes
was asked by representative suffragists
to recommend in his annual message
to the Legislature an amendment
to the State Constitution giving women
the right to vote. The Governor
received the delegation in the Executive
Chamber soon after noon, listened
attentively to the speakers, and
congratulated them on the "calm,
earnest, and dispassionate manner in
which they discussed such an important
question." so far as his personal
views were concerned, he said, he 
had nothing to say at this time.
In view of the fact that on a former
occasion Gov. Hughes had said
that when a sufficient number of representative
women came before him
to ask for the vote he would give the 
matter his consideration, he was told
that Mrs. Ella H. Crossett, president
of the New York State Woman Suffrage 
Association, represented 35,000
women who want to vote, and that
Mrs. Ella A. Boole, president of the
State W. C. T. U., stood for over
29,000 white ribboners organized in
every county who wish the ballot.
Mrs. Fanny Garrison Villard, as
chairman of the legislative committee,
laid before him the names of
women of high standing who was active 
suffragists. Miss Anne F. Miller,
leader of the large suffrage club of
Geneva, a grand-daughter of Gerrit
Smith, asked, "What does Your Excellency
call sufficiently representative 
women?" Of this telling shot
the N. Y. World says:
"Miss Miller's well-modulated voice
had practically committed an assault
and battery on the stillness of the 
vast Executive Chamber. A woman
with prematurely snow white hair, in
picturesque gray garb, she had come
to Albany merely to ask the question.
But the shot, in the face of the evidence
before the Governor, hit the
bull's-eye."
The arguments were brief and
forcible. Mrs. Crossett reminded
Gov. Hughes that when Mr. Roosevelt
was Governor he suggested that
the women work for a bill providing
that taxpaying women in towns and
villages be allowed to vote on special
appropriations, and afterward recommended
this in his message - the aid

tional president. Miss Shaw said, 
in part:
"Men at one time spoke down to
women, in the same manner that both
sexes address children. They flattered
us with pretty lies. They were happy
in it, and so were we. In the addresses 
of the men who welcomed us
to Sioux Falls, I felt that they were
showing us the greatest respect. They
were talking to us as they would to 
men. There was no flattery, no pretty
lies.
"In the Scandinavian countries
where equal suffrage prevails, the men
stood shoulder to shoulder with the
women in their struggle for the franchise.
"The women have aided the men in
all their battles. In the Revolutionary
war, the women melted their plate to 
make bullets for the army. The Civil
War would have ended disastrously for
the North had not the women of that
section worked for the cause.
"There are two things I would like,"
said Miss Shaw. "I would like to be a 
policeman, and I would like to serve
on a jury. I hope, before I die, I can
have both honors. Some people have
an idea that it is the duty of policemen
to make arrests. Instead, it is their
province to prevent crime. There are
thousands of women and children who
could be saved from lives of crime and
degradation were women on the police
force."
She commented on the saying, "The
hand that rocks the cradle rules the
world." "In the first place," she said,
"the hand never rocks the cradle, the
foot does the work. The hand that
rocks the cradle would be useless for
ruling the world if it couldn't do anything
else. The good mother is the
woman who could be anything else, 
but prefers to be a mother."
The reception in the evening to Miss 
Shaw was well attended by both men 
and women.
Mrs. A. D. Tinsley, president of the
local association, introduced Ex-Mayor
Doolittle, who welcomed the suffragists
to Sioux Falls.

TRIBUTES TO MR. BLACKWELL.
Mary N. Chase
I shall always deem it one of the
rare privileges of my life that I knew
so well that lover of humanity, as he
has been called, Henry B. Blackwell.
I have not only met him at a great
many suffrage meetings, but have
been a guest in his home, and can 
testify that he was one of the most
unselfish and lovable men I ever met.
I consider Mr. Blackwell as remarkable
as any member of that gifted
family. His service to the cause was
unique, and his name should be 
blazoned high among those noble,
self-sacrificing souls who have labored
for freedom, equality and justice.
He was the one man in the 
wide world who made the cause of

free, in the ideal sense of the word,
to serve their country and their God
as their individual conscience dictated.
the daughter so sorely bereaved
is bravely carrying on the
work. Let us take to heart her own
quotation at the close of her loving
tribute to her father: "Remember
that, though we may pass away, and 
the leaders of the cause fall one by one,
principles never die; they are eternal,
world-wide and unchangeable."

Mrs. Susan W. FitzGerald.
It is a pleasure to see how warmly
appreciative of his personality and
power all the papers are, and I am
glad that the public have an opportunity,
through their sympathetic
words, of learning of his great labors
in the interest of mankind.
Personally I have a very sweet and
vivid picture of him in my mind from
my last meeting with him at Marble 
House.

Paula Laddey.
The news came as a shock to me,
because he was so very well and always
ready for any undertaking on
his trip West. I often think that a 
beautiful old age, such as your father
has enjoyed, and then a sudden
death, is the most divine crowning of
a useful life. May this thought, and 
the assurance of the love and admiration 
which Mr. Blackwell earned for
himself from all who knew him, help 
you to bear your bereavement. I am
glad and grateful to have known your
father.

Margaret A. Haley.
I must say a word of that magnificent 
hero, your father, and how
he impressed me.
I shall never forget the evening I
spoke to the Twentieth Century Club
in Boston on our Chicago Teachers'
Tax Fight. I see your father now, as
he looked that evening in the audience,
his eyes glowing, his magnificent
physique, the embodiment of a
great spirit, alert and fighting out with
the Chicago teachers every inch of 
the ground, and glorying in the struggle.
I shall never forget it. I have
told that story often, but never to
such a listener. Do you remember
how he regretted that I had not explained
to him what I was to talk
about, in order that he might have
had a stenographic report of it? Do
you remember how he wanted that
story to take it to President Roosevelt,
in order to let that "valiant
fighter," as he believed Roosevelt to
be, know what the Chicago women
teachers had done, and to get from
Roosevelt the recognition and aid he
sincerely believed Roosevelt was sincerely
according to worthy fighters?
...In his death the women of the 
United States have lost their best
friend since Susan B. Anthony left us.

on the smaller area of politics, the
home environment, have been judiciously
and liberally framed.
The Australian ballot system prevails,
and all that criticism about going
to the polls unsexing women is, of
course, the veriest nonsense. A woman
can vote and does vote with no
more contact with any objectionable
surroundings than she has when she
goes shopping. The women of Utah
all vote. Some satirists allege that
they use the ballot so tirelessly because
the privilege is new. Whatever
the reason, they make use of their
vote. They thresh the questions over
and they know why they vote in a 
certain way and for a certain candidate.
The women usually go to the
polls in the early part of the day. I
go just as soon as the polls are open.
It is never a question of more than
ten or fifteen minutes, an incident in
the morning routine of marketing or
shopping. You meet your neighbors
bound on the same errand of casting
the ballot, but few, I might say no
women, loiter about the ballot-box. We 
all know exactly how to mark our ballot,
and we do it expeditiously. Many
women are earnestly working for various
reforms, civic and local, but I find
that many women vote, as I do, because
it is a duty enforced by granting
the ballot. To refrain from voting is
to neglect something for which one is 
accountable. I can imagine nothing so 
pernicious as for those who reside
in a certain section being so indifferent
to the communal interests as not
to care who is elected to fill
the various public offices. This is practically 
what the failure to vote means. There
is no public issue connected with my
home, my State, my country, to which
I am indifferent. Therefore I cast my
vote and record my wishes on these
matters. I rejoice that my views are
the universal view of Utah women.
We have had women serving in the
legislative chambers and they have
performed their duties quietly and 
ably and were highly esteemed among
their colleagues. Mrs. Mattie Cannon
served in the Senate and Mrs. Alice
Horne in the Lower House. Both
women were exceedingly able advocates,
and their speeches were among
the best efforts of the session. We 
have even had a woman Sheriff - Miss
Clare Ferguson - and she also filled
the place with credit to herself and to 
the satisfaction of her community.
Women in public offices are quite an
ordinary occurrence in Utah, and so
far as one judges superficially these
public duties have not interfered with
the more sacred ones in the homes.
In Salt Lake City women's clubs are
doing an excellent work toward
illuminating public questions. The
women who have later to vote on
these issues get together and discuss
them and hear each other's views on 
every phase. This exchange of ideas
is getting toward the realization of the

piece set, containing 6 teas, 6 tables, 6 
knife, all in hinge-cover lined box.

OTHER PREMIUMS.
To anyone sending us one new subscriber
to the Woman's Journal at 
$1.50, we will give as a premium a fine
photograph of Henry B. Blackwell.
For two new subscribers, we will
send either "The Land of Long Ago,"
by Eliza Calvert Hall, author of "Sally 
Ann's Experience," or a year's subscription
to Charlotte Perkins Gilman's
new magazine, "The Forerunner."
For three new subscribers we will
send either the beautiful Woman Suffrage
Calendar just published by the
Collegiate Equal Suffrage League of
New York, or "Children's Rights," by
Josiah Allen's Wife.
To anyone sending four new subscribers,
we will give as a premium a 
year's subscription to either one of the 
English suffrage weeklies, "Votes for
Women" (Mrs. Pankhurst's), "The 
Common Cause" (National Union of 
Women's Suffrage Societies - Mrs. 
Snowden's), or "The Vote" (Women's
Freedom League).

A CORRECTION.
Miss Mary N. Chase writes:
I notice an error in the New Hampshire
report, Dec. 25: $15,000 instead
of $150. Please correct it.


FORM OF BEQUEST.
There is no more effective way to
aid the cause of equal rights than by
assisting the woman suffrage papers.
Form of Bequest.
I hereby give and bequeath to the
Proprietors of the Woman's Journal,
published in Boston, a corporation established
by the laws of Massachusetts,
the sum of ___ dollars, to be
applied by such Proprietors, principal
and interest, at their discretion, to the 
support and improvement of the paper,
and the promotion of the principles
which it advocates.

A YOUNG ARMENIAN wishes to do
housework in a family, to earn his
living while preparing for a course in
Technology. He has taken freshman
and sophomore courses at Anatolia
College, Marsovan. Speaks fairly
good English, is neat looking and
pleasant. Address Vahan Calendar, 15
Temple place, Boston.