SUFFRAGE PAPER
SOLD BY WOMEN
    This was the day when Providence
had a chance to learn something about
the woman's suffrage question from the
organ of the party sold on the streets
by members of the party. There were
about 30 young women selling the
paper on the streets down town, and
during the day, too, there were open
air meetings, at which women speakers
expounded the doctrines that were
printed in the copies of the "Women's
Journal and Suffrage News" that were
being sold on the streets.
   The local members of the Suffrage
party were assisted in selling the paper
by members of the party in Newport
and Pawtucket. The edition was a
Rhode Island edition, since it contained,
in addition to the general news of the
party's movements, articles contributed
by Rhode Island women, notably 
Mrs. Sara Algeo, Miss Mary A. D. Brennan,
who is now a voter in Seattle, and 
Mrs. Maude Howe Elliott, who took an
active part in the campaign that the
Progressive party made in this State
last fall.
   The Patronage was liberal, very few of
those who had the paper thrust before
them refusing to buy. The selling agents
were out early and dresed warm for
the occasion, for it was rather chilly
work selling the papers, especially early
in the day.
   The women selling the papers were detailed
along Westminster street and in
the busier sections down town, and at
entrances to the big office buildings.
   A lunch was served at the party headquarters
later in the day, and after that
more papers were sold. A series of open-air
meetings has been arranged for the
afternoon and evening. They will be
held at the Exchange place and Cathedral
square.
   The women who were selling the papers
were equipped with bags thrown over
their shoulders and containing papers,
some of which they held in their hands.
They also wore a bandeau containing the
legend "Votes for Women."


[*Tribune Oct 23*]
TO SPEAK IN INFANTRY HALL
Arrangements for Visit of Mrs. Pankhurst
Here Completed.
    The regular weekly meeting of the
Rhode Island Woman's Suffrage Party
was held yesterday morning in room 602
Jackson building.  Final arrangements
were made for Mrs. Pankhurst's lecture,
which will be held in Infantry Hall Nov.
14.
   Nov. 1 members will sell papers on the
streets to help the cause.
   Miss Kinstead held a very enthusiastic
meeting in Cathedral square before a
large gathering Saturday evening.
   Mrs. James Algeo is to speak before
the West Barrington Reading Club Oct.
28 at the home of Mrs. Ruth Anthony
Davis.
   Mrs. C. A. Bursley will speak before 
the Philathea Class of Young Women in
Brockton, Nov. 4.
   Mrs. Florence Hall, President of the
New Jersey Suffrage Association, will
speak the last of the month on the 
"Ignorant Voter."
   The Walking Club will resume activities
in canvassing Assembly District 
No. 3, meeting at Mrs. Algeo's at 2
o'clock.


THE PROVIDENCE JOURNAL, THURSDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1913.
air meeting is to be held by Mrs. Kinstead
at Cathedral square at 8 o'clock
on Saturday.


   The meeting of the Rhode Island
woman's suffrage party was held on
Tuesday morning at 10:30 o'clock at 692
Jackson building.  Arrangements were
concluded for Mrs. Emmeline Pankhurst's
lecture, to be held in Infantry 
Hall on the evening of Nov. 14.  An open


THE PROVIDENCE JOURNAL, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1913.
THE PANKHURST ARTICLES.
 To the Editor of the Journal:
   The senior surgeon of the New England
Hospital for Women and Children
has read Christabel Pankhurst's articles,
and authorizes me to say that they are
very able and not at all exaggerated.
They give a plain statement of the dangers
to which profligacy exposes the
health of innocent wives and children.
Some of the strongest passages are quotations
from the published works of the
late Dr. Prince Morrow, President of the
American Society for Social and Moral
Prophylaxis.  It has been well said, in
regard to the social evil, that "men sow
the wind, and women and children reap
the whirlwind."
   With all respect for the good work that
Anthony Comstock has done, this is not
the first time that he has allowed zeal to
outrun discretion.  Some years ago he
wanted to suppress an issue of the organ
of the National Purity Association, which
he considered objectionable.
   The law against the circulation of indecent
literature was never meant to apply
to the serious discussion of a serious
public evil.  A frank presentation of the
hygienic dangers of vice is about the last
thing likely to promote vice or to make
it attractive.
ALICE STONE BLACKWELL
Dorchester, Mass., Oct. 26.

(The Journal, while totally disagreeing
with the writer's argument, is very glad
to print this communication.  We recognize
Miss Blackwell as the very best
type of woman suffragist and we believe
that in her arguments for the cause of
suffrage she takes a high and unassailable
position.  On this topic, however, we
feel that her point is unsound.  The statement
that the articles of Christabel Pankhurst
on social evils only tell the truth
is no excuse for their publication in an
organ supposed to be devoted to suffrage.
A great many people believe that
the only reason for their appearance in
such a paper is to attract attention and
create comment in order to keep up the
militant suffragette agitation.  There is
a great difference between pulling down
the blinds on subjects of this character
and exploiting them for dishonest reasons
in newspapers of general circulation.--Ed.)

SUNDAY JOURNAL, OCTOBER 19, 1913.
NOISY STREET CARS FAIL
TO HALT SUFFRAGE TALK
Miss Mary Brennan, Brown Graduate,
at Cathedral Square.
   With noisy cars at the left of her and
noisy cars at the right of her, and the
honk honk of automobiles all around her,
Miss Mary A. D. Brennan, a Brown
graduate and a firm believer in everything
she says about women's suffrage,
talked in Cathedral square last evening on
"The Reason Why Women Should Have
the Vote."
   Notwithstanding the dozen varieties of
noise Miss Brennan held her audience.
Men predominated, but there were
women, too, gathered about the automobile.
At one time there were as many
as 20 would-be female voters gathered
about the speaker.
   After the address a woman stepped up
to the automobile and whispered something
to Miss Brennan.  The young 
woman turned to the audience and declared
that in order to carry on the work
of getting the vote for women a collection
would be taken, and she hoped 
as many as could would drop a few cents
in the hat.  Some were seen to drop.
   The meeting last night was an independent
one arranged by Mrs. Emil 
Hesse and Mrs. Ingeborg Kindstedt.
During the course of her talk Miss Brennan
said:
   "Mrs. Pankhurst is the rebel of to-day
and the hero of to-morrow.  I prophesy
a statue will be placed in Westminster
Abbey in a few years just as there is
one to George Washington, who was a
disreputable rebel, from the king's standpoint,
in his day.  I approve of Mrs.
Pankhurst and the English movement because
my own ancestry was too militant
a one to sit down under abuse.
   "I grant that a woman's place is in the
home, but I add, it is also where the
children of the nation are.  A good housekeeper
must keep the enighborhood pure
if she keeps her children healthy, because
the germ is the most democratic 
of things and attacks rich and poor alike.
Therefore a woman must attend to the
city housekeeping and then that of the
State."

MRS. PANKHURST TO SPEAK 
AT INFANTRY HALL NOV. 14
Rhode Island Suffragists to be Hosts
of Militant.
   Mrs. Emmeline Pankhurst, leader of
the English militant suffragists, will lecture
in Infantry Hall, No. 14, according
to arrangements completed by the Rhode
Island woman's suffrage party at its
regular weekly meeting in the Jackson
building Tuesday  morning.
   It was also decided that Nov. 1 be inaugurated
as Woman's Journal Day, and
that time members of the suffrage party
in Rhode Island will sell copies of their
paper on the street for the benefit of the
"cause."
   The dates of several addresses were
announced.  Mrs. James Algeo is to
speak before the West Barrington Reading
Club next Tuesday at the home of
Mrs. Ruth Anthony Davis.  Mrs. C. A.
Bursley will be the speaker before the
Philathea class of young women in 
Brockton, Nov. 4, and Mrs. Florence Hall,
President of the New Jersey Suffrage
Association, is to speak on "The Ignorant
Voter" later in the month.
   The Walking Club of the local party is
to resume its activities in canvassing Assembly
District 3 in the interests of
woman suffrage.

THE EVENING BULLETIN, PROVIDENCE, R.I., WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1913.
MRS. HALL TELLS
OF ACHIEVEMENTS 
OF HER PARENTS
Daughter of Dr. Samuel Gridley
Howe and Julia Ward Howe
Gives Address at Woman Suffrage
League Rooms - Describes
Philanthropies.
   Mrs. Florence Howe Hall, at the rooms
of the Woman Suffrage League, in the
Jackson building, last night, gave a talk
about her parents, Dr. Samuel Gridley
Howe, philanthropist and educator, and
Julia Ward Howe, author of "Battle
Hymn of the Republic" and an active
worker in the cause of her sex.
   She spoke with pride of the fact that
Dr. Howe was a graduate of Brown University
in the class of 1822.  In describing
her father's work in assisting the Greeks
in their revolution against the Turks,
Mrs. Hall said he served about five years
in the war for freedom, both as a soldier
and as a surgeon.
   His most important service, however, 
was a preaching crusade in America
whereby $60,000 was raised to assist the
starving Greeks, the provisions sent out,
together with clothing, saving the lives
of thousands of the non-combatants.
   Continuing, Mrs. Hall pointed out other
work done by her father, including the
establishment of the Perkins Institute for
the Blind, the first school of its kind
in America, and the education of Laura
Bridgman, the first blind deaf mute in
the world to be taught the use of language,
and the system under which Helen
Keller and all blind deaf mutes have
since been taught.  His work for the 
cause of anti-slavery and as chairman
of the vigilance committee to assist runaway
slaves was touched upon.  One of
his greatest labors was the establishment
of the Massachusetts School for the Idiotic
and Feeble-Minded.  During the war
between the States he was a member of
the Sanitary Commission.
   Mrs. Howe assisted her husband in
editing an anti-slavery paper, the Commonwealth,
and it was while on a visit
to Washington with him that she wrote
the "Battle Hymn of the Republic."  The
deep interest of Mrs. Howe in suffrage
and the advancement of her sex was
touched upon and several extracts of her
writings on that subject were read.  In
conclusion Mrs. Hall reminded her hearers
that her mother descended from a 
line of Rhode Island patriots.
   The philanthropic work of Dr. and Mrs.
Howe covered a period of 81 years, from
1824 to 1910, when Mrs. Howe died at
Portsmouth in this State at the age of
91 years.
   Mrs. Hall during her stay in Providence
is the guest of Dr. and Mrs. Edward
M. Harris.

Florence Howe Hall to Lecture
   Mrs. Florence Howe Hall will give an
address on "Philanthropist and Poet," in
which she will recount some interesting
reminiscences of her celebrated father
and mother, at 102 Jackson building on
Tuesday evening at 8 o'clock.
[*Oct. 29, '13.*]


THE PROVIDENCE JOURNAL, WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 5,
Suffragists Bound for Newport.
   On invitation of Mrs. Caroline B. Hazard,
a group of women suffragists from
the Rhode Island Suffrage party will go
to Newport to-day to sell the Woman's 
Journal.  The invitation was accepted at
a meeting held in the Jackson building
yesterday morning.  Plans were also discussed
for a bazaar to to be held Dec. 15,
16, 17.

THE PROVIDENCE JOURNAL, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1913.
WOMEN WILL SELL PAPERS
HERE FOR SUFFRAGE CAUSE
Members of Party Volunteer Services
for "Journal Day."
   More than 30 women, members of the
Women's Suffrage Party, have volunteered
to give their services for the cause
in this city to-morrow, when the annual
"Woman's Journal Day" will occur.  The
women will sell these papers on the
streets of the city, and also distribute
them among the offices in the business
district.
   Mrs. Marion B. Hazard of Newport,
chairman of the organization in that city,
has volunteered her services, and will
bring several assistants along with her.
Pawtucket will also be represented in the
members canvassing the city.
   The edition of the "Woman's Journal,"
which will be sold, has been made up
under the direction of Miss Alice Stone
Blackwell, and is called the Rhode Island
edition.  The Rhode Island news in the
paper has been edited by Mrs. Maud
Howe Elliott Miss Elizabeth Upham
Yates and Mrs. James W. Algeo.
   The campaign of selling the papers
will be carried on all through the day
and lunch will be provided for the workers
at the party headquarters in the
Jackson building.  Public meetings in the
open air will complete the day.  Among
the speakers will be Miss Margaret Foley
of Boston, Mrs. Marion B. Hazard of
Newport, Mrs. Hall of Pawtucket and
others.

LECTURE
MRS. EMMELINE 
PANKHURST
Infantry Hall
NOVEMBER 14, 8 P.M.
Reserved Section . . . . . . . .$1.00
Admission . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   50c.
Tickets on Sale at News Stand Journal
Building


THE SUNDAY TRIBUNE, PROVIDENCE, R. I., OCTOBER 26, 1913.
Woman Suffrage Notes.
   Preparations in the Woman's Suffrage
party for Woman's Journal Day on Saturday,
November 1, are going on apace.  On
that day through the courtesy of Alice
Stone Blackwell, the editor-in-chief, a
special Rhode Island edition of the Woman's
Journal will be issued.  Mrs. Maud
Howe Elliott, Miss Elizabeth Upham
Yates and Mrs. James W. Alges will edit
the Rhode Island news and Miss Blackwell
herself will present the situation, 
which promises to be a thrilling one this
year, in regard to the electoral or Presidential
Suffrage bill.  For over 20 years
the work has been carried on in Rhode
Island for the passing of this bill, which
is the only franchise privilege the State
Legislature has the right to grant and
this year the women are out to win.  The
securing of the passage of this bill would
place Rhode Island second in importance
from the Federal standpoint to Illinois
and would break into New England.
   Over 30 women will peddle Woman's
Journals on Saturday.  Mrs. Marion B.
Hazard, Chairman of the Woman Suffrage
party in Newport, will bring up a group
from that city and six women from Pawtucket
have offered their services.  
[??] luncheon for all "newsies" will be served
at the party headquarters, 602 Jackson
building.  The day will close with public
meetings in the squares.  Miss Margaret
[ey?] of Boston, Mrs. Hazard and Reuben
[??kham] of Newport, Miss Hall of Pawtucket
and others will, it is expected, re-[?]
local speakers.
   Offers of assistance from loyal suffragists
will be gladly welcomed at the headquarters
before Oct. 31.

SUNDAY JOURNAL, NOVEMBER 2, 1913.
WHAT AND NAR[?]
   SEV'L of our sts. are o.k. after repairs.
   Quite a few good shows were had here
last wk.
   Zene Bliss is back home after Buffaloing
sev'l days.
   Tues. will be election day, tho there's
not even a dog catcher to be elected hereab'ts.
   Our would-be lady voters are planning
to greet Emma Pankhurst in gala style,
we learn.