n. Senator Harding wrote the White House tonight that although France had sent her "spokesmen" him informally asking America to had the way for an association of [?ations,] the incident had not involved the French government in [?ny] violation of international proprieties.
The senator declared that in his reference to the subject in a speech Green Castle, Ind., recently he [?aly] had sought to convey the thought that there had come to him chose who spoke a sentiment which they represented to be very manifest among the French people." He added that his words "could not be construed to say that the French
(Continue on Page Two.)

Senator Lodge Is Hissed at Harvard

CAMBRIDGE, Mass., Oct. 18.-
The name of Senator Lodge was missed by a large number of those present at a gathering of Harvard students in the Harvard Union tonight when it was mentioned by congressman Joseph Walsh. Mr. Walsh. in the course of a speech setting forth the claims of the Republican party. praised Senator Lodge and supported his stand on the League of Nations. He paid no attention to the hisses and went on with his address without further interruption. The meeting was for purpose of hearing representatives of four political parties.

e of Schools
n Polling Places
Day a School Holiday-Pro-
Gas Meters by Bridgeport Gas
e of Bonds.
[?ition] filed by U. M. C. employes 
o object to the extra charge.
Mayor Wilson said plans for using 
schools for polling places were
advanced and that he would
[?ke] an official designation of the
[?ing] places this week. He read 
a list of schools under consideration
which included a school in
[?ut] 10 out of the 12 districts. In
Districts where there are two elections 
precincts and but one school, it 
probably be necessary to desig-
a store in addition to the school.
In the meantime the building
inspector is going over the schools
to see that they are safe for
[?ng] purposes.
The Mayor said the voting ma-
es will be installed in the voting
[?es] before the end of the week.

Bond Committee Reports
report of the bond committee 
firming the sal of $2,000,000 in
[?ds] which the city authorized last
[?ust] was adopted. The bonds
[?e] been sold to a Boston concern 
the money will be used for
school purposes.
The meeting was held in the office
the Director of Public Works 
[?ng] to the fact that the Selectmen
[?e] using the aldermanic chamber
make voters.
An adjournment was taken until
October 26.

unprecedented act for him to do and a great risk for the President to leave his country for months and go to foreign ,lands. He laid down 14 points, as Clemenceau said, two more than God Almighty laid down. He had hardly got free of Castle Garden when he received a message from Lloyd-George that if the freedom of the seas was 'sine qua non' then port your helm and go home. The President laughed and said you are right, Lloyd-George and he arrived in that country which had saved him from destruction.
(Continued on Page Two.)

of the League of Nations, approached a private citizen of a nation which is not a member of the League with a request that the United States lead the way to a world fraternity.'" Neither officials at the White House nor at the State department would discuss the inquiry directed to the French government. It is understood that the note was transmitted from the State department to the French government through Ambassador Wallace in Paris. At the French embassy it was stated that no communication
(Continued on Page Two.)

Cox Again Attacks Harding for "Wobbling" on the League Issue
Democratic Candidate Preaches League of Nations to League Audiences in Upper New York-Says Harding Made "Slip" in Saying Approached by France.

BUFFALO. N. Y., Oct. 18.-
Preaching his League of Nations gospel today in northwestern New York, Governor Cox renewed assaults against Senator Harding, his Republican opponent for alleged "wiggling and wobbling: upon the League issue.
To six large audiences, at Syracuse, Rochester and Buffalo, and in two rear platform addresses en route, he carried his preachments upon the League, declaring that it was "inspired by God" and a "pledge" to American soldiers and mothers.
Governor Cox declared that Senator Harding had made a "slip" in stating that he had been approached "unofficially" by a French representative regarding "a world fraternity."
"The French government," said Governor Cox, "very promptly and properly denies that there have been any official overtures of any kind. I want to ask Senator Harding whether it is not true that the 'representative of France was not Maurice de Kobra of 
Paris. If this be true, and I have strong reasons for believing that it is we have an instance of the kind of counsel he will seek in international affairs."
Governor Cox said that M. de Kobra, a correspondent for the Paris La Liberte, and who recently traveled with Governor Cox before going to accompany Senator Haring, was an author and humorist.

Two Night Riders Are under Arrest
Jake and Ben Burton Taken Into Custody for Threats to Burn Cotton Gin.
COLUMBIA, S. C., Oct. 18.- The first arrest to be made in South Carolina as a result of the action of "night riders" in warning cotton gins to close until the price of cotton advances, were made today at Johnson City. Jake and Ben Burton were taken into custody charged with posting warnings on cotton gins at that place.
Reports received here from Graycourt said that a cotton gin there had been posted with the warning: "Don't turn a wheel or we will burn."
A similar notice, fastened to the gin house with matches, was found today on the Cedar Spring ginnery, near Spartanburg.

Sees Brandegee "Swagger" Gone Since Ratification
Scattered in the audience in the Casino last night were prominent suffragists who were taking notes of the remarks of Senator Brandegee and comparing them with his anti-suffrage utterances of other days. After the meeting Mrs. Frank H. Riley, publicity chairman of the Fairfield County Suffrage association, made the following statement:
"It was not the swaggering Brandegee we hear in Washington several months ago-the Brandegee who sneeringly talked of 'putting pink pajamas on men and Plymouth Rock pants on women' and about 'women who are going around bleating about saving Democracy.'
"No, indeed! It was a different Brandegee-a vaguely explanatory apologetic Brandegee, speaking frequently in technical terms that were not understood by the majority of the audience. We suffragists are interested in Senator Brandegee's reported change of front on suffrage, but his talk last night seemed more a change of words than a change of heart.
"In the course of his remarks Senator Brandegee said he had written a letter to Colonel Ullman advising that Connecticut ratify the suffrage amendment. We would like to see that missive and learn whether or not it was written before or after Tennessee ratified the amendment, and here by extend an invitation to Senator Brandegee to produce the letter.

investigation of the League to Enforce Peace proved the sensation of the day. Dozens of confidential letters between Mr. Taft, George W. Wickersham and others were given. In his summary Mr. Hunt says that Herbert S. Houston testified before the committee that he had talked with Bourgeoisie, the German chancellor; Lord Robert Cecil and David Lloyd-George in regard to the United States entering the League of Nations and that Edward A. Filene, of Boston, who has been abroad on a 
(Continued on Page Two.)

ness are affecting the situation here. Herr Stinnes and his associates strongly oppose notionalization, Stinnes claiming that if the mines are nationalized the allies under the Versailles treaty would have the right to seize them as government property to meet their claims. There by through control of the coal production and distribution the allies would be placed in position to throttle German industries.
The Reichtag reconvenes tomorrow and the nationalization of mines
(Continued on Page Two.)

Latest reports were that the convicts had abandoned the second machine which they stole near Mount Kisco early yesterday and had stolen another near Lakeville, Conn.
Warden Lawes tonight began an investigation of the escape and James L. long, acting superintendent of prisons, also arrived to take part in the investigation. The warden announced he would inquire into a report that several of the 120 keepers who were off duty when the men escaped failed to respond to the alarm sounded when the men broke away.
THE AFTER-WAR RELAXATION IN ENGLAND.

leaders with their human mass behind them like sea waves, forcing the vanguard of the police from their pathway. Soon an inextricably mixed restless mob resulted, pushing its dense throng against the struggling police.
Rides Through Crowd.
Suddenly from out of the mob appeared a resourceful leader who astride a great white horse, rode through the crowd and attempted to force a passage through the police line. He was dragged to the ground by the men in uniform.
This act was a signal for riot and pandemonium broke loose. The crowd became unmanageable, broke the lines of police, hurling missiles of every description, tearing down balustrades of buildings they passed.
As the rioters progressed, fifty mounted police were formed into a wedge and charged the mob, driving the crowds back from the narrow Downing street, breaking many banner carried in the parade. At this the anger of the crowds grew and stones were hurled which broke windows in the Treasury building. Despite the strenuous efforts of the police and the use of their heavy sticks, the mob returned again and again, surging in dense formation in terrific attempts to re-enter Dwoning street.
Two women were seriously injured by stones flung at the crew of a fire engine which was sped into Whitehall in attempt to disperse and angry crowd which had gathered before the privy council office, and smashed several windows.
Late at night the police had been unable to entirely disperse the rioters who in groups, large and small, were haunting the back streets of the Whitehall district, spreading destruction, hurling missiles promiscuously, forcing the merchant along the Strand to bar and shutter their windows in order to protect their shops from damage by the angry mobs.
During the rioting the premier did not attempt to leave his house despite the fact that the mob kept shouting:
"Come out."
During the afternoon and night, it is estimated that 150 men and women were wounded, many of them seriously. More than 200 arrests were made.
Cracked skulls predominated among the injuries, the result of the generous wielding of police clubs, but the wounded included many girls and women who were knocked down and trampled on by horsemen in the dense human mass.
In the entire district the streets were strewn with debris and torn
(Continue on Page Twenty.)

50 Per Cent. Reduction in Printed Percale Announced
NEW YORK, Oct. 18.- A flat 50 per cent. reduction in the prices of printed percale to the cutting and jobbers trades was announced by selling agents of a well known line her today. This was said to be regarded in the trade as even more radical a readjustment of prices than that announced for bleached cottons last week. The slash in printed percale prices is to a basis of 16 cents for 4-4 64-60 goods, and 17 cents for 4-4 68-72s.

