of all peace-loving states were outlined; close cooperation, not alone to shorten the war but to see that peace is secured, was agreed upon, and a number of political questions of importance settled. this cleared the way for the Cairo and Teheran meetings.
At Cairo the fate of Japan was settled.
At Teheran determination was expressed to finish the war shoulder to shoulder and to work together to fashion an enduring peace. There the representatives of the three Great powers agreed upon three constructive points.
1. the timing of military operations.
2. A bid to the German satellite nations to leave the Nazi camp
3. The assurance to the Iran of her freedom
They also recognized the necessity of jointly seeking a solution of the causes of war.
The Four Freedoms
In an address to Congress on January 6, 1941, the President concluded with a masterful appeal for the Four Freedoms as the basic to the new world order. He said:
"In the future days, which we seek to make secure, we look forward to a world founded upon four essential human freedoms.
"The first is freedom of speech and expression-everywhere in the world.
"The second is freedom of every person to worship God in his own way-everywhere in the world.
"The third is freedom from want-which, translated into world terms, means economic understandings which will secure to every nation a healthy peacetime life for its inhabitants-everywhere in the world.
"The fourth is freedom from fear-which, translated into world terms, means a world-wide reduction of armaments
* * * (so) that no nation will be in a position to commit an act of physical aggression * * *."

Conferences of the United Nations
In May, 1943, the first United Nations Conference was called to order at Hot Springs, Virginia. There representatives of the forty-four nations met in the Conference on Food and Agriculture to outline recommendations to bring Freedom from Want to people everywhere.
In November, 1943, representatives of the same nations met at Atlantic City in the Conference on Relief and Rehabilitation to work out plans for the relief of areas devastated by the war.
A Conference of Allied Ministers of Education was held in London in April, 1944, when again representatives of many nations considered restoration of educational facilities destroyed by the Axis. 
Delegates to the United Nations Monetary and Financial Conference met July 1 at Bretton Woods, New Hampshire, to frame plans for international stabilization of monetary matters and organization of a world bank. 

The Cooperation of Congress
From the days of George Washington there has been discussion between the Senate and the Executive Branch of the government over foreign policy because authority overlaps under the Constitution. The Roosevelt Administration has worked diligently through conferences with members of Congress to develop a cooperative spirit to prevent differences between the two branches of the government in planning for peace.
One result of the effort has been the embodiment in the Connally Resolution of the wording of the Moscow Agreement.

Page Twenty

Pattern for a New World Order
As the war blasts on to its final chapter, our foreign policy proposals draw a pattern for a new world order. The President announced the middle of June that the United States was ready with the first draft of a post-war organization for world peace and security. Secretary Hull has sent invitations to China, Great Britain and to Russia to begin conferring on the outlined plan. The President said:
"It is our thought that the organization would be a fully representative body with broad responsibilities for promoting and facilitating international cooperation, through such agencies as may be found necessary, to consider and deal with the problems of world relations. 
"It is our further thought that the organization would provide for a council, elected annually by the fully representative body of all nations, which would include the four major nations and a suitable number of other nations. The council would concern itself with peaceful settlement of international disputes and with the prevention of threats to the peace or breaches of the peace. 
" * * * We are seeking effective agreement and arrangements through which the nations would maintain, according to their capacities, adequate forces to meet the needs of preventing war, and of making impossible deliberate preparation for war, and to have such forces available for joint action when necessary."

What of the Republicans?
Events have demonstrated again and again the vision and wisdom of the conduct of our international relations by President Roosevelt and Secretary Hull. The evolving foreign policy of this Administration glows in contrast with the utter failure of the Republican Administration in the twenties. A plank has been adopted by the Republican National convention which follows strikingly their pattern of 1920. Let Mr. Willkie speak:
"The Republicans won the election of 1920. A Republican President, claiming that he in no way repudiated the party's platform, immediately after the election announced that the League of Nations was dead. A Republican President elected under the proposed platform of 1944 could, with equal integrity, announce that the United States would not enter any world organization in which the nations agreed jointly to use their 'sovereign' power for the suppression of aggression. And every effective world organization proposed could be rejected as a 'world state'."

Who Built This Foreign Policy?
Today we all know we are winning this war. Victory will come to us more quickly and more surely because it is built on the eleven years of brilliant and skillful foreign policy of this Administration - a foreign policy consistent and farsighted from the day the Good Neighbor Policy was inaugurated in March, 1933, to the day in May, 1944, when Secretary Hull announced that with the President's approval he has invited representatives of Great Britain, Russia and China to Washington to begin discussions on the kind of peace structure we need after the war.
This Administration's foreign policy, and the test it has stood in the world crises, is its most important accomplishment. It is easy now to say that it is the policy of all the American people and not of any political party, but someone had to build that policy, and the Roosevelt Administration is the administration that did it.

The Democratic Digest

Program for Chaos

Newspaper Columnists and Democratic Leaders Comment on the Republican Platform and Candidate

SENATOR JOSEPH C. O'MAHONEY, Chairman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, on the keynote speech:
"One will search the speech in vain for any realization of the hopes that might have been aroused by this appraisal of the times. Definitely Governor Warren laid down no program for the future, and unless the platform committee of the Republican convention does the unexpected, the country will again be invited to a change of leadership upon the specious promise that the Roosevelt policies can be carried out better by the critics who don't believe in them anyway than by their originators under whose leadership America has actually reached its highest standard of production and achievement.
"Certainly the over 22 million who voted for Willkie in 1940 find nothing to arouse their enthusiasm in the declaration of Governor Warren that the Republican party wants a 'just and lasting peace.' Governor Warren has told the assembled delegates that 'whatever the exact procedures' for such a peace, he does not believe any sound American political party should say more.
"The hearts and minds of America demand more. And what the Republicans apparently offer will be of little satisfaction to the soldiers now fighting this war and for whose right to vote in the coming election the Republican governors, notably the prospective nominee, did little to protect. Nor will it provide any hope for their parents and families who anxiously await their return to a world which offers some promise of a positive program to banish war."

One the acceptance speech:
"Except for the formal attacks upon the President and the Administration in the conventional manner of a party spokesman, the acceptance speech of Governor Dewey was a rather strong endorsement of the President's course. 'Thank God for General Marshall and Admiral King' says the Republican candidate. The people, I think, will be inclined to say 'Thank God for Roosevelt who put them there.'"

WALTER LIPPMANN, Columnist, on the platform:
"* * * This platform, quite apart from its intentional ambiguity on foreign policy, is as regards domestic affairs as reckless and as mischievous as irresponsible politicians dared to make it. It is a blueprint for post-war inflation. It is an invitation to all the pressure groups, a permit to all weak-minded and chicken-hearted candidates for office, to plunge the country into the chaos of an uncontrolled and uncontrollable inflation of prices and wages.
"The authors of the platform pledge themselves to 'maintain the values of the American dollar' and to 'regard the payment of government debt as an obligation of honor which prohibits any policy leading to the depreciation of the currency. We shall reduce that debt as soon as economic conditions make such reduction possible.'

June-July, 1944

"But how do Senator Taft and his colleagues propose to discharge this obligation of honor and to reduce the debt?
"They propose to reduce the debt by reducing taxes: 'as soon as the war ends' - mark the words - all the present rates of taxation are to be brought down to the level to cover - again mark the words - 'the normal expenditures of government in the post-war period'. Thus they do not intend to reduce the debt. Moreover, they do not intend to maintain tax rates capable of exercising any control of that vast accumulation of inflationary purchasing power which will be most dangerously explosive precisely in the period just after the war ends. As the platform pledge of a party allegedly devoted to sound money, this demagogic promise about taxes is a disgrace." * * *
"These deadly dangerous promises to reduce taxes and to raise wages and farm prices are set in a platform which promises by implication to remove all the wartime controls before demobilization and reconversion are completed. There is not one line, not one word, in the whole platform which recognizes honestly the need of civilian control and sacrifice in wartime. Only the soldiers, it appears, are expected to sacrifice their convenience to the nation.
"If this is the spirit and the substance of the Republican post-war domestic program, Mrs. Luce will have some explaining to do when GI Joes come home to find a country so selfish, so sunk in its own materialism, that it did not have the discipline and decency to deal with the obvious danger of a post-war inflation."

EARNEST LINDLEY, Columnist, on the acceptance speech:
"In the conduct of a great war, military affairs are intertwined with international politics and diplomacy. The coordination of all these activities to achieve victory and gold it can be achieved only by the head of the government. This is not, as Dewey implies, civilian "intervention' in the military conduct of war. His use of the word might in itself be taken as an indication that he does not grasp the nature of war or the duties of the President."

GOVERNOR ROBERT S. KERR, Democratic keynoter, on the platform:
"The Republican platform is the great unsolved mystery of 1944. They've covered practically everything that they've had in platforms as far back as 1920 and they've established a new world's record in talking about a single sentence showing how they intend to achieve it."

On Governor Warren's withdrawal from the GOP Vice Presidential race:
"Being a member of the family, he appeared to be willing to act as one of the pallbearers but he sure walked out on them when they tried to put him into the casket."

Page Twenty-one