206       UNITY       Monday, July 15, 1935

of publishing Miss Jane Addams' books and through
the production of them was brought into close contact
with the author herself. It was always a very satisfying
relationship - at least to the publisher - and it is
believed to Miss Addams. Her writings, especially
"Twenty Years at Hull House," and its successor,
"The Second Twenty Years at Hull House," have had
wide reading and still do. They have, undoubtedly,
left a deep impression, not only upon the minds of
social workers everywhere, but have served to tell thousands
of people, who knew little about that sort of work,
what was being done by one great institution in the
serving of humanity. Miss Addams' literary activity
continued up to within a few days of her death. One of
the last things which she did was to put the finishing
touches to her book which is to be published in the Fall
under the title of "My Friend, Julia Lathrop," in which
she pays tribute to another great personality who had a
passion, as did Miss Addams, for service.

HELEN CODY BAKER, Council of Social Agencies in
Chicago.

What can we do, in appreciation for all that she
has given us? Perhaps we can do two things, one of

them very practical and easy, the other more intangible
and difficult. Miss Addams' friends are already
talking of some memorial to her, some gift to Hull
House or Bowen Country Club in which we can all
have a part. To do something of this kind would be a
privilege we should be glad to share to the limit of our
ability. The other thing is harder. We might ask ourselves:
What was the special quality that brought us
to our feet when she came into a room? It wasn't her
faculty for organization - though she was a fine organizer.
It wasn't the accuracy of her statistics, though
she believed in facts, sought them patiently "beneath
dogmatism and enthusiasm," and knew how to use
them. It wasn't her case-work technique, for she
transcended the techniques we labor to perfect. It
wasn't her ability to raise money for social work,
though she was a rare money-raiser. Was it her vision,
her sincerity, her "inner sight," her way of seeing
things whole, rather than in parts, her simplicity and
her quiet courage? There is no one word to sum these
up. Few of us can combine them in one personality.
But if, as social workers in this city that she loved,
we can keep these qualities alive in our work, we shall
continue to build Jane Addams' monument in Chicago.

Jane Addams'
Tribute to Her Father

I am writing as "Fathers' Day" is approaching
and am moved to refer to the influence Miss Addams'
father had upon her life. Probably a good thing to
recall in these days when fathers are playing "second
fiddle" in plans for new social orders. John Addams
founding a home in rural Illinois had a good deal to
do with the creation of Jane Addams of Hull House,
Chicago.

In editing a book several years ago, with the title,
"What I Owe to My Father," I asked among a score
of others Jane Addams to make a contribution. In that
short sketch of a dozen pages, she refers to the fact
that her father had unusual influence upon her life, 
her mother having died when she was a baby. Her
father was an associate of Lincoln's and had letters
from him. He was for many years in the Illinois
Legislature and was widely known as unbribable. He
was a Quaker.

Miss Addams brought into Hull House a Quaker
conscience. It was imperative that she should be opposed
to war. She had a Lincoln-sympathy and directness
of approach to the "common people" - of
whom she naturally thought herself to be one. She
was instinctively democratic. It was natural for her
to be a "neighbor." The first thing that troubled
her in society was the fact that some people lived in
big houses, while others lived in little houses. This
social observation was for life a fundamental motive
for her actions.

When I first went to Oak Park, Chicago, in 1897,
Hull House on Halsted Street and Chicago Commons
(with Graham Taylor) were attracting attention and
challenging the social and religious forces of Chicago.
Jenkin Lloyd Jones was doing the same thing ( a little
earlier), whom I always regarded as a kind of older
brother of the trio in advanced social activity. Hull
House and Chicago Commons were on the "West
Side" so that our Oak Park Church - several miles
distant - looked with special interest upon these "so-

cial centers." Some of my brightest young people
were drawn into these "centers" - and there gained
much enthusiasm and direction for their lives. Our
Oak Park Church sent over sixty "workers" into the
city, weekly. Many of these went to "Ewing Street" -
the church under the eaves of Hull House - while
others went to "Bethlehem" at 711 Loomis Street, less
than a mile from Hull House.

We came to know Hull House and Jane Addams
at first hand. In 1907 I spent a year in residence at
"Bethlehem," when I came to know Hull House intimately.
Miss Addams and I were born in the same
year, 1860 - consequently we occasionally referred to
each other as twins.

One of my early impressions of her and Hull
House was when I first called at the House. The door
was opened by Miss Addams herself. It was not due
to any respect for me, it happened to be her "turn to attend door." It is an illustration of the democratic fellowship that reigned in the House from top to
bottom. It marks also the principle and spirit which
governed her whole life.

She was a member of the little church in the
block, in fact one of the trustees said she enjoyed "getting
together with her neighbors in worship" - but she
was a bit "unorthodox" since she was a mere "social
worker" - so, one day the young "orthodox" preacher announced to her that her presence was not beneficial to the church! So, she was not "orthodox" to some 
big employers in the city - because was a "social
worker!" - and took an interest in the lives and wages
of the people of the neighborhood.

In all such incidents she went on her way serenely
like one living above the battle but participating in it.
Hull House was open to all - irrespective of orthodoxy
or race. With her rare common-sense and instinctive
social judgment along with a penetrating conscience -
she faced the social problems that came to her door,
in a changing city like Chicago, nearly swamped as was
the neighborhood in rush of populations of different

Monday, July 15, 1935     UNITY     207

origins - she from her "throne" of influence worked
constantly for the peace of the world! Hull House
became the "roof" for new ideas and strangers from
all parts of the world. She instinctively believed in all
"good causes" - rights of women, rights of races,
democratic equality in politics and industry. So far
as she was concerned the "argument was all in" concerning
democratic equality, the sovereignty of the
people and the rights of conscience.

Miss Addams' "genius" consisted in the fact that

she took seriously certain fundamental principles,
ethical and social, which she had learned in her rural
Illinois home - democracy, obedience to conscience, and
applied them continuously to the day's work, in preparation
for the next day's work. She was endowed
with a large fund of common-sense. Her life is proof
that "success" after the manner of Jane Addams is
within the reach of practically all young women of
America.

SYDNEY STRONG.

From Co-Workers in the Settlements

MARY E. McDOWELL, For Thirty-five Years Head
Resident, University Settlement, Chicago.

Jane Addams the best friend of all of us, the one
who believed that we had a right to dream, has gone,
yet she is not gone because her spirit and the impression
of life she lived is with us and will be always.
Jane Addams is known to those who lived with her
in the early days of Hull House, when we had to wash
our own dishes, as one who always took her turn -
at dish washing, or whatever there was to be done.
She is the one person I have known who "saw life
steadily and saw it whole." From the least of these to
the greatest, she was always the same - to the rich and
the poor. One morning I remember, she came back
from her visiting in the neighborhood looking very
white and weary. I said, "What is the matter with
you, Miss Addams? You look so white." She answered
"For the first time, I have helped bring a
young human being into this world." Then she told
me that the doctor had not come and she had to do
what was needed. When she was at the Weir Mitchell
Sanitarium in Philadelphia, she was told she must stay
in bed and keep quiet, but she knew better. It was just
after her father had died and she was very lonesome
so she took some lectures at the Woman's Hospital and
learned the process of bringing a bit of humanity safely
into the world. At the Settlement everything one ever
learned comes in handy.

Jane Addams never forgot her friends, even when
on a vacation. She was in the Adirondacks when the
stockyards strike was on, in 1905. She knew I was
in the mist of the twenty-two thousand people who
were striking and realized that it was very trying. She
wired me, "If you need me, wire me and I will come."
I did not need her then, but when she came home
earlier than usual, for she knew strike conditions
would grow worse as the time lengthened, she came at
once to see me. I was so glad to see her that I forgot
all my troubles and as we walked about the neighborhood
and saw the people out of work, I told her of
the suffering and how good they were, in the fourth
week of their trials. Suddenly, I looked at the very
pretty hat she wore, and asked her where she got
it, thinking I might get one like it. She told me that
Mrs. Wilmarth had given it to her when she had been
very downhearted. Later, as I was about to put her
on the car to go home, I noticed she was bareheaded
and I remarked, "Oh, you forgot your hat. If you
wait, I'll get it for you."

"Oh, no," said Miss Addams, "I didn't forget it.
It is your hat. I came up here to give you whatever
you wanted and my hat was all you expressed a desire
for, so I left it on your bed."

It was so like her, she shared whatever she had

and always in the spirit of one who receives rather than
one who gives. That hat is a symbol of her spirit.

I went to Washington and attended everything in
her honor, for I felt that it might be the last opportunity.
The first triumph was the dinner where over
one thousand people ate together in her honor. She
was present and was her own gay, lovely, charming
self.

The day following the dinner for Miss Addams
was to be a wonderful out-of-door peace meeting, when
for the first time a peace message was broadcast over
the ocean. The greetings came from England, France,
Russia and Japan. The weather was uncertain, it rained
a bit and Miss Addams was prevented from appearing.
But it was arranged for her to receive the messages
from the hotel and send her own back to England,
France, Russia and Japan. With the loud speaker as
her medium, Jane Addams spoke to the whole world.
The meeting was held in McPherson Square, the band
was in one sheltered spot and the speakers present in
another.

Each nation had its representative. These representatives
introduced the speakers thousands of miles
away, as if they were right there. England came first,
introduced by the Charge d'Affaires, represented by
Viscount Cecil and Mr. Henderson, the president of
the Disarmament Conference. Then the Japanese
Charge d'Affaires, introduced Prince Okugawa, for
thirty-one years the president of the House of Peers
in Tokyo. Senator Paul Boncour, former Prime Minister
of France was introduced and spoke from Paris,
then Litvinoff presented his wife who was in Moscow.
Madam Litvinoff introduced the widow of Lenin, who
spoke for Peace, and, as each had done, spoke of Jane
Addams, giving tribute to her marvelous courage and
simplicity. These representatives also spoke of the
twenty-five years of faithful work which the Women's
International League for Peace and Freedom has given
for the peace of the world. After each one spoke the
band played their national anthem and all the people
rose to their feet. Miss Addams was well known by
these gentlemen from the other countries whom she
had met when she visited all the warring countries and
"made her widespread appeal for Peace."

But last and best of all, to us who listened - some
in tears - to these tributes from each nation over the
air, clearly and sincerely, came Jane Addams' voice,
vital and distinct. Every word was a spiritual message
and her response, as she said, was to acknowledge
their part in the "long procession of those who have
endeavored for hundreds of years to substitute law for
war, political processes for brute force." It was as if
she wanted to leave that last word with us, for it will
take many of us working together to bring it to pass.