1074    The Christian Register     (18) [NOVEMBER 10 1921

The Church Calendar

There is no better way of estimating 
the activities of churches than a study of
calendars and other church publications.
The response to the request of THE REGISTER
for church publications was generous
and representative. The material contained
in the calendars indicated earnest 
effort to place the church activities before
the people, and illustrated the new enthusiasm
aroused by the forward movement
in which Unitarian churches are now engaged.

At the date of writing, calendars and
leaflets have been received from thirty-
four churches. Of this number, twenty-six
were of the four-page folder type one of
which contained an enclosed sheet advertising
the first Sunday-school service of
the season; three were two-page issues;
three were six-page bulletins; and two
were post-cards with services and sermon
subjects printed on the back. The following
titles appeared on the front-cover
pages of the publications: "Our Work,"
"Pathfinder," "A Calendar for the Month,"
"Unity," "Weekly Bulletin," "The All
Souls' Herald," "Weekly Calendar," "The
Dial," "Monthly Calendar."

It was interesting to see the kind of
material used on the front-cover page
Seven calendars had cuts of the church;
one bulletin had a cut of the memorial
tablets on which were inscribed the names
of the members of the church who served
in the World War. Ten printed a statement
of belief on the cover, a number of
which were distinctive. Among these expressions
of faith were the following:-

A Unitarian church is not a church where all
think alike, but where all alike think. We have
no fixed creed, but come together to help one
another search out the truth in freedom and
reverence, and to find inspiration to put the
truth we discover to work in human life. If
our aim appeals to you we invite you to join us.

We assemble in this church prompted by love
and duty; to worship God; to reason about the
problems of life; to strengthen the will and the
spirit of enthusiasm, and to increase love of
justice and truth; that we may help to increase
righteousness upon the earth.

This church accepts the religion of Jesus,
holding in accordance with his teaching, that
practical religion is summed up in love to God
and service to man. All are cordially invited
to its fellowship who are in sympathy with its
spirit of perfect freedom, its ideals of perfect
faith, and its practical aims of the worship of
God and the service of man.

This church is dedicated to religion, but not
to a creed. Neither upon itself nor upon its
members does it impose a test of doctrinal formulas.
Love to God and man and the perfecting
of our spiritual nature it regards as the
unchanging substance of religion and the essential
gospel of Jesus. Consecrating itself to these
principles, it aims at cultivating reverence for 
truth, moral character and insight, helpfulness
to humanity, and the spirit of communion with
the Infinite. It welcome to its worship and
fellowship all who are in sympathy with a religion
thus simple and thus free.

The form of the cover differed. The
majority conformed to the accredited type,
with the name of the church, the city or
town, and the minister, with the statement
of faith, when there was one, coming usually
at the bottom. One calendar used
heavy black type, and included the officers
of the church, The Alliance, and the Lay-

men's League. Three gave brief histories
of the church in place of a confession of
faith.

The calendars revealed a variety of
activities. Among a number showing that
the churches were using practical methods,
we have selected the following: "Autumn
Gathering," "Stereopticon Talks on
Bible Stories," "Meeting of Mothers' Rest
Association," "Relief Sewing," "Opening
Reception and Party," "Reunion Sunday,"
"Home Comforts Exposition," "Parish Census,"
"Mother-craft Conference."

Sermon titles were quite generally advertised.
Here are some of them: "Mornings
and Sunrises," "Wonders and Lessons
of the Sea," "The Man who Walked with
God," "The Background of Religious Liberty,"
"Be of Good Cheer," "Our Daily
Prejudice," "The Children and the Future
of the Church," "Principles of Peace,"
"Atheism in Unitarian Pulpits."

Several items of local interest proved
significant because they illustrated the
unique local problem. For instance, one
church, wishing to place the church in a
mood to conform to the spirit of the day,
asked the organist to introduce the service
with a brief organ recital rather
than with the customary prelude. Other
churches have visitors' registers at the
entrance to the auditoriums, and place
responsible persons in charge at the Sunday
morning service. One parish committee,
realizing that members of the congregation
may have valuable suggestions
to make, invited such persons to meet
with the committee and present their case.
A church on the Pacific Coast commenced
its membership campaign in the calendar
issued October 16, in which it asked its
members to bring friends to the service
and to give names of possible new members
to the committee that has charge of
mailing church publications.

Much interest attached to personal paragraphs.
From a number we have selected
the following:-

It is not the true function of a church to
attract mere crowds at any cost (which too
often includes the questionable methods of the
slap-stick artist or the charlatan), but so to
improve the helpfulness of our church life as to
win increasing membership of loyal disciples

and co-workers. We shall probably undertake
to give more publicity to our work this coming
season, but let us not forget that ordinary
advertising can never be so effective as the sincere
testimony of those who are our convinced
and grateful members. - William G. Eliot, Jr.

In our religion of truth and reason we are
working for results; and we believe that religion
will exhibit results when founded upon its
own facts and practiced according to its own
laws. The fruits of the Spirit are native to
us; they are the natural output of the divine
life within us; and when this deeper life within
us finds unrestrained expression, we shall manifest
all heavenly attributes of character just
as inevitably as a thrifty tree unfolds its leaves
and blossoms. And since we are in partnership
with divine laws and limitless forces and sovereign
Love, why should we not obey those
heavenly visions of divine possibility which descend
upon us through parted clouds and reveal
from time to time the promise of the future? -
Frank A. Powell.

Every one wonders sometimes whether any
headway is being made. One day's effort does
not seem to make much change in the children,
or one day's teaching in the school, or in the
church school, does not seem to do much to
them. One sermon does not have very much
effect on the congregation and one civic act does
not do much to save the country, but something
is happening every time to child, congregation
and country. That is the truth and to know
it is to keep heart to carry on. Sunday at 11.
-John Malick.

It is not enough that the individual shall
maintain his own goodness; he must make that
goodness useful and effective - he must be good
for something. The Church offers every man
in the community a chance to be identified with
those activities which upbuild the standards
and ideals of life. - Frank A. Powell.

Why may we not reverently speak of the
geniality of God? The Christian use of the
word implies no likeness in our thought of God
to the joviality of some old heathen god, not
to a Bacchus, nor a Zeus in laughter, nor to
Thor. In contradistinction to these stands out
another picture. It is that of the true God
who in all pleasure demands righteousness; and
in all righteousness demands joy. He plants
meadows for our pleasure, but back of the
meadow He rears the granite cliff of right, justice,
moral demand. He will not let us forget
to be deeply serious, nor will he let us forget
to be gladly joyous. At the heart of morality
He lights the genial fire of friendship and love.


CALLING THE ROLL
OF THE LIVING

The second era of Unitarian Progress
begins in America

Ninety-eight ministers in the Boston Circle
from the nucleus of the advance to the next
achievement - - CHURCH MEMBERSHIP!

MEMBERSHIP CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE
7 Park Square, Boston, Mass.

NOVEMBER 10 1921] (19)    The Christian Register    1075

It is this thought of God's geniality that the
world needs to-day. - George Lawrence Parker.

A Good Unitarian has the Logic of a Presbyterian,
the Freedom of a Baptist, the Breadth
of a Congregationalist, the Zeal of a Methodist,
the Conscience of a Quaker, the Fortitude of
a Pilgrim, the Devotion of an Episcopalian, the
Optimism of a Universalist, the Cheerfulness
of a Christian Scientists, and attends church
like a Catholic. - Lyman V. Rutledge.

This study of church calendars has revealed
a number of effective methods; it
has also uncovered serious defects. In
the first place, the calendars were too generally
formal, with the usual stereotyped
title-page, parish notes, and lists of officials.
Many of the title-pages were good,
but most of them could have been improved
by more careful editing. In a
number of instances the contents of the
calendar indicated a woful lack of church
activities of a definite, live sort. Successive
issues needed variety and appeal.
The last page, devoted usually to a list
of church committees, was wasted space.
It would be well to print the members of
committees occasionally during the year,
but not weekly or monthly. The church
that is actively at work should have material
far more valuable than lists of
names monotonously repeated. After careful
examination of the calendars and other

publications received, we must conclude
that the average calendar or bulletin
could be made a much more forceful factor
in the life of the parish. It should
really advertise in selling fashion the activities
of the various organizations. It
should represent on the part of the minister,
who is usually the editor, as careful,
thoughtful attention as the sermon. The
possibilities of the calendar have not yet
been realized, mainly because ministers
pressed by other responsibilities have given
the publication too little attention. THE
REGISTER will not improvements in the
calendars that come to the office, and will
be pleased to give recognition to methods
which in its judgment are worth recommending
to the churches.

Dr. Henry Gow Resigns

Dr. Henry Gow, minister at Rosslyn
Hill Church, Hampstead, England, since
1902, when he succeeded Dr. Brooke
Herford, and well known in this country
and Canada, has resigned to take up the 
post of Warden at Manchester College,
Oxford, in addition to that of Professor
of New Testament Theology and Homiletics.
He will begin his new duties early
in January.

Dr. Gow graduated from Owens College,
Manchester, in 1881, and studied for the

ministry under Dr. Martineau at Manchester
New College, London, 1881 to 1884.
He held a Hibbert Scholarship from 1884
to 1886 and studied in Harvard University.
Then from 1886 to 1889 he engaged in
missionary work in Liverpool. Three
years later at Mansford Church and Mission,
Bethnal Green, he became minister 
at Leicester Great Meeting. Dr. Gow received
the appointment, in 1915, of Professor
of New Testament Theology at Manchester
New College, London, 1881 to 1884.
United States in 1919 as preacher at the
General Conference in Baltimore, in celebration
of the centenary of Channing's
sermon on Unitarianism. While in this
country he received the degree of D. D.
from Meadville. 

Dr. Gow has a gift of vigorous, appealing
eloquence, and has contributed a number
of articles to religious journals on the
application of spiritual religion to personal,
social, and national problems.

This is the way of salvation - to look
thoroughly into everything and see what
it really is, alike in matter and in cause;
with your whole heart to do what is just
and say what is true; and one thing
more, to find life's fruition in heaping
good on good so close that not a chink is
left between. - Marcus Aurelius Antoninus.

"Money for a Campaign"

The Unitarian Campaign is going forward, having been able to get under way because
a year ago 24,345 Unitarians subscribed $2,326,831.56 and to date have paid in
$1,116,932.62.

How far the religious and educational Campaign is going, and at what rate of speed,
will be determined largely by the willingness of Unitarians to continue their financial
support.

"We are willing to give our property and even our lives when our country calls in time
of war," says Roger W. Babson, "yet the call of Christian education is today of even
greater importance than was ever the call of the army or navy. I say this because 
we shall probably never live to see America attacked from without, but we may at any
time see our best institutions attacked from within."

The safety of our nation, he adds, depends on Christian education, which at no time in
our history has been more greatly needed.

"The need of the hour," Mr. Babson insists, "is - not more factories or materials, not
more railroads or steamships, not more armies or navies - but rather more Christian
education."

This is the time of all times, therefore, to increase subscriptions to the Unitarian
Campaign. The Laymen's League has a department which receives contributions and
distributes them, without any reduction for expenses of administration, to the Unitarian
agencies sharing in the apportionment.

11,644 Unitarian laymen recognize the need for more education based on the plain
teachings of Jesus.

Unitarian Laymen's League
7 Park Square - Boston