188      THE LIBERATOR.     NOVEMBER 18.

Poetry.

The following effusion indicates a clearness of vision 
and depth of moral conviction most creditable to the
author.

                  THE NATION'S JUDGMENT.
                 BY CHRISTOPHER P. CRANCH.

O feeble minds, who, in the far-off void,
Look for God's judgment, mixing evil and good,
Not on the future fix your vacant stare;
Not for the last loud doom-trump sit and wait:
Now is the Judgment-day! The Lord has come--
Not as you dreamed, on supernatural clouds,
But borne in battle-smoke across the land.

This is a truth hard to digest, yet truth:
The Devil's engines work to gain us Heaven:
Now is the Judgment-day -- and Hell has clutched
Upon the nation's conscience, hardening long,
Coated with sin, to purify it by fire:
We sit by streams of blood, by ravaged fields;
We watch 'neath bursting shells and sulph'rous skies;
We hear the yells from trench and battle-field;
We hear the groans from hospital and prison;
We toss on surging seas of hopes and fears; --
The happy land lies torn and bleeding sore,
And writhes in pain for a crime whose serpent folds
Had slowly, step by step, and year by year,
Benumbed our strength, and magnatized our eyes,
And dragged us down, down--till the foul slave-pen
Seemed nothing worse than cattle-pastures green,
Or wattled sheep-cotes on the upland farm;
Yea, steaming rottenness and miasma foul
Rose sweet as mountain air we loved in youth.

What can we hope for who have sinned so long?
First of all laws of God, by Christ made clear,
Is this: "All men are brothers." Keeping this
Is Heaven--God's kingdom on the earth--no less.
And breaking this plain law, and grovelling low
To please a band of tyrants whose brute heels
Trample their brothers' souls out, is the Hell
Whose pains we now endure. Yet it is not
Vengeance divine, as theologians prate;
For God is Love, nor knows what Vengeance is.
Say, rather, purging Fire, by which the soul
Of this great nation shall grow clean and white.
This is our expiation--full of woe
And anguish--we who scorned to follow Christ
In deeds of love and justice, now must gnash
Our teeth in torment, having spurned and cursed
The spiritual law which links all men
With God and one another. Strange it seems,
And dire. And yet as soon expect earth's heat
To stifle all the beauteous summer's growth,
And never a tempest rise to purge the air,
And cool the fever, as that, having lived
With backs turned on God's even-handed laws,
Our laugh could hush the mutterings of the clouds,
Our shrug could shoulder off the thunderbolt
Of war, Hell's Engine, whose mad work must spend
Itself in fiery blasts of woe and death,
Till Heaven's great everlasting Peace be won,
And laws be just, and human brotherhood
Stand the first Article of the Christian's creed.

MARYLAND.
BY CHARLES HENRY BROCK.

Shout! for the rising glory
  Encircles the land and sea,
Where millions speak the story
  That MARYLAND IS FREE.
No brand of shame upon her
  Records oppression now,
For the nation's star of honor
  Illumes her queenly brow.
Fling wide each temple portal
  Of Liberty to-day,
And be your hymn immortal
  Re-echoed o'er the way,
Where MARYLAND, in beauty,
  Leads up her mighty line
Of sons, to loyal duty
  At Freedom's faith and shrine.
Perish the tale forever
  Of the Massachusetts men!
Oh! be its burning never
  The theme of tongue or pen!
Their blood cries out no longer
  From ransomed BALTIMORE,
For Freedom stands the stronger
  Above that faded gore;
And PLYMOUTH ROCK is blending
  With the surges of its sea,
The anthem never ending,
  That MARYLAND IS FREE!
The Chesapeake--I wonder
  If its tide goes down to-day,
And echoes and grander thunder
  To the ocean from the bay?
The Autumn--I am thinking--
  Is brighter there than of old,
And that woods, from the sun, are drinking
  A deeper quaff of gold;
The throngers of the city
  Are gayer, I guess, in the mart,
And may be a joyous ditty


The Liberator.

RATIONALISM IN THE PULPIT. No. I.

    Mr. Editor: --Dear Sir--Rationalism, under
the title of anti-supernaturalism in the pulpit, is considered 
in an Address delivered before the Divinity
School at Cambridge, by Rev. F. H. Hedge, D. D.,
and published as the first article in the Christian Examiner 
for September, 1864. I beg leave, in behalf of
the Rationalists that belong to the great Christian
body, to question some of its positions, and defend,
as far as may be, the cause which it disparages.

    I. "My quarrel with the anti-supernaturalism of
the present day is, that it satisfies no spiritual nor intellectual 
want. It is neither one thing nor the
other, it is neither religion nor science; too self-willed 
for the one, not positive enough for the other. It
is any man's opinion of human and divine things,
with no definite authority, human or divine, for its
warrant."  (p. 153.)

    Anti-supernaturalism is here put for the system of
Christianity held and taught by the anti-supernatualists. 
This, it is the object of the address to disparage, 
and the author's quarrel is really with this.
This, he says, satisfies no spiritual nor intellectual
want. Can a Christian man say this? Can the author 
of the Address substitute the system of Christianity, 
or the religion of Jesus, as held and taught
by the anti-supernaturalists, for anti-supernaturalism
in the above, and accept his own statement? We
think not. We think that he would see, instantly,
that it is false and unjust. Anti-supernaturalism, in
its restricted sense as a single dogma, is like unbelief
in magic, unbelief in witchcraft, or the rejection of
any other delusion. It is not claimed to be a system
of duties to God or man, nor a system of general culture. 
No Christian Rationalist deems it such. It does
not pretend to satisfy every spiritual or intellectual
want, but is purely negative and adversative, directed
against a wide-spread, long-cherished and most injurious 
delusion. It is no part of the gospel of positive
truth, but it is a snow-plow before it, clearing its track,
and making way for its progress.

    The rationalist gospel of positive truth satisfies
every spiritual and intellectual want, and embraces
religion, both in its science and art. It is not "any
man's opinion of human and divine things, with no
definite authority, human or divine, for its warrant,"
but it is the highest knowledge that any human mind 
has ever reached and reported, reproduced, verified
and augmented in other minds, and capable of universal 
reproduction and indefinite augmentation.
Knowledge does not require artificial wants, nor uncertain 
and fallible authority; it has the warrant of
the Eternal in the evidences by which it is shown to
be knowledge, and not opinion merely; more it cannot
have. To ask a miracle for the establishment of a
truth is a work of supererogation. Truth is as independent 
of miracle as it is of human authority.
This will appear, if we consider the highest of all
truths, the existence of God. Is there a supreme
first cause of all things, and is he an intelligent being, 
working for rational ends? Creation shows herself 
in his work, and that work in progress, and reason 
is fully answered. She concludes, there is a supreme, 
intelligent, first cause of all things; infers
that he always has been and always will be, and makes
him the supreme object of all human regards. This
is God, the God of nature, the God of reason, and the
God that is known.

    He makes bodies, and unmakes them; he makes
souls, and takes them at death from the visible world.
Do the miracles claimed for Jesus add anything to
the proof of the existence of this God? Provided
those miracles were certified on any better authority
than the nine resurrections effected by St. Patrick,
and his other miraculous doings, would they render
the existence of God any more certain, or any better
known than it now is? I think not.

    Rationalism does homage first to the natural sciences,
and admits them as parts and parcels of the great
empire of truth. It then pays its respects to history, 
and sits with filial reverence at the feet of the fathers, 
to obtain whatever information they have. It
goes back to the earliest known periods, explores all
empires and nations, and all races and ages, seeks for
their highest, noblest, most ennobling and most divine
thoughts, and puts them among her stores. Her aim
is to overlook nothing, and lose nothing that is valuable 
in the acquisitions of the human mind. All the
stores of sacred learning belong to her pulpit; all religious 
truth, all religious knowledge, every thought
that has proved itself an inspiration of God, every
sentiment and affection that is godlike and divine.

    This is our gospel; this is the satisfaction of our
spiritual and intellectual wants. But we do not stop
even with this. Believing God to be greater and
better than is known or conceived, and encouraged by
the steady progress of past ages, we aspire to still
higher and nobler inspirations than are found in all
the past, and deem it our mission to add to the treasures 
of the past, and to transmit to the ages to come,
the inheritance we have received from the ages past,


abundantly suffices. So taught the prophets, so
taught Jesus; so also we teach.

    We love our fathers and brothers who walk in the
light of the past, and have no desire to detract from
their well-earned honors or emoluments, but we cannot 
allow them to fan the flame of public prejudice
and ill-will, with which we are attempted to be crushed 
and overwhelmed. Will those who have entered
the lists against us be so good as to revise their positions, 
and see if they have not occasion to change
them? We claim the same hearty recognition as
fellow-Christians, of our supernatural brothers, which
the so-called Orthodox denominations mutually concede 
to each other.

                     Yours, truly,
                                LEICESTER A. SAWYER.

THANKSGIVING DINNER FOR THE SOLDIERS 
AND SAILORS

    The undersigned, a Committee appointed at a meeting 
held at the Union League Club House, appeal to
the people of the North to join them in an effort to
furnish to our gallant soldiers and sailors a good
Thanksgiving Dinner. We desire that, on the twenty
fourth day of November, there shall be no soldier in
the Army of the Potomac, the James or the Shenandoah, 
and no sailor in the North Atlantic Squadron,
who does not receive tangible evidence that those for
whom he is perilling his life remember him. It is
hoped that the armies at the West will be in like manner 
cared for by those nearer to them than we. It is
deemed impracticable to send to our more Southern
posts.

    To enable us to carry out our undertaking, we need
the active co-operation of all loyal people in the North
and East, and to them we confidently appeal. We ask
primarily for donations of cooked poultry and other
proper meats, as well as for mince pies, sausages and
fruit. If any person is so situated as to be unable to
cook the poultry or meat, we will receive it uncooked.
To those who are unable to send donations in kind,
we appeal for generous contributions in money. Will
not every wife who has a husband, every mother who
has a son, every sister who has a brother serving in
the armies or navies of the Union, feel that this appeal
is to her personally, and do her part to enable us to
accomplish our undertaking? Will not all who feel
that we have a country worth defending and preserving, 
do something to show those who are fighting our
battles that they are remembered and honored? Will
not the press and the clergy lend their aid to the
movement?

    We will undertake to send to the front all donations
in kind that may reach us on or before November 20,
and to see that they are properly and equally distributed. 
They should be wrapped in white paper, boxed,
and addressed to GEORCE W. BLUNT, Getty's
Building, Trinity Place, New York. If uncooked, 
it should be so marked on the outside of the box,
and a list of the contents should accompany the box.
If sent as above without being packed, we will pack
it. Poultry, properly cooked, will keep ten days.
None should be sent which has been cooked prior to
November 14. Uncooked poultry or meat should
reach us on or before November 18, that it may be
cooked here.

    Contributions in money should be sent to Theodore
Roosevelt, Treasurer, No. 94 Maiden Lane, or to any
member of the Committee.

    The time is short, and we trust that no one will
wait to be personally solicited. Will not some person
in every city and town of the North and East volunteer, 
however, to canvass in his own city or town?

    The American, Adams, Harnden, National, Kingsley, 
Hope, Long Island, and United States Express
Companies have generously offered to transmit to this
city, free of charge, all boxes addressed as above, and
it is not doubted that other Express Companies will
do the same.
 
                      CHARLES H. MARSHALL, Chairman.
                       GEORGE BLISS, JR., Secretary.
                George W. Blunt,
                             Chairman of Executive Committee.
                Theodore Roosevelt, Treasurer.

HORRIBLE TREATMENT OF A UNION MAN.
   
    After Price left Glasgow, Mo., the guerrilla fiends,
Quantrell and Anderson, entered the place, and committed 
all sorts of outrages. The following is a
sample, the narrator being Benj. W. Lewis, a
Union man of great wealth and influence:

    "Anderson, accompanied by a Captain from Callaway 
county, went to Lewis's house, and demanded
his presence. Upon being told he was not at home,
Anderson said unless he was immediately forthcoming, 
he would burn the house, but if he made his
appearance, his life should be spared. Upon this
assurance, Mrs. Lewis sent for her husband. Mrs.
John B. Clark, mother of the rebel General Clark,
and D. C. Yorth, brother-in-law of Sterling Price,
were stopping at Lewis's house, neither of whom, nor
Mrs. Lewis, were allowed to say a word. When
Mr. Lewis appeared, Anderson said, 'I have heard
of you, and old Price has heard of you, down in
Arkansas and Texas. You have damaged our
cause more than any ten men in the State.' An-


age, and show how brutal in feeling men become
when they yield to the demoralizing influences of a
roving, pilfering life, and a savage, guerrilla warfare. 
Such scoundrels are unfit to live, and equally
unfit to die. The sooner that they are wiped from
earth, no matter how, the better it will prove for a
moral age, a civilized community, and the cause of
humanity. They should have shuddered at the
thought of so cruel a death for a beast--yea, even
a reptile--let alone a being human with the form
of themselves, the image of their God. But no!
they manifested a maniac's delight in the torture,
and smiled with fiendish satisfaction as the fearful
shrieks of their victim made hideous the air. They
were not men, but cowards--devils in human forms.

    Since writing the above, we have been furnished
with additional details.

    At Rocky Hill Station, on the Louisville and
Nashville railroad, fifteen miles this side of Bowling
Green, on Wednesday morning at about three o'clock,
about twenty-five guerrillas came in, cut down the
telegraph posts, and burned the boarding cars
belonging to the construction train. William Fox,
of the 6th Kentucky cavalry, was there on a visit
to his mother and sister. The guerrillas asked him
to surrender, when he handed them his pistol.
They then asked him for his money, and he gave
them that. One of them cried out then, "Kill the
son of a b--h!" His mother then exclaimed, "Oh,
spare my son, spare him, he will go with you anywhere!" 
One of the gang, evidently for the purpose 
of saving the young man's life, started with
him toward the woods, when his more blood-thirsty
comrades ran along side of the victim, and fairly
riddled him with bullets, in the presence of his
mother and sister, whose prayers and entreaties
were answered with curses and derision.

REBEL BARBARITIES---COLORED SOLDIERS
                      MURDERED.

    A letter to the Philadelphia Inquirer, dated at
General Butler's headquarters October 17, says:

    "The rebel flag-of-truce boat William Allison
brought down to Coxe's Landing this morning about
five hundred paroled Union prisoners, in exchange
for paroled rebel prisoners sent up on Saturday.

    "According to the accounts of several officers
and surgeons, with whom I conversed, the conduct
of a portion of the rebel troops, subsequent to the
engagement in Saltville, was utterly lawless and
brutal. In two field hospitals, near the scene of the
battle, were twenty-three wounded negroes of the
First colored cavalry--fifteen in one, and eight in
the other. All but three of them were murdered
in cold blood by the rebel soldiers, who called there
for that especial purpose; and these fiends in human
form boasted while doing this hellish deed that they
had been engaged in the same work all day. They
claimed to have buried one hundred and twenty-five
colored soldiers, of whom nearly all must have been
slaughtered in the same way, as it is said scarcely a 
dozen were killed in the battle. This was on the
3d instant. The three negroes who had been spared
(it is to be presumed through oversight) were removed, 
with the rest of the wounded, to the Emory
and Henry College Hospital. Four days later, or
on the 7th instant, a party of cut-throats in rebel
uniforms entered the building, and shot two of those
dead. The other was fired at twice, and left for
dead, but the would-be-murderer, it appears, did
not look critically to the effects of his shots, and the
negro was but slightly grazed on the head. He was
afterwards removed to the house of a citizen in the
vicinity, and concealed until he could be removed to
a safer place.

    "But these demons had not yet appeased their
thirst for blood; and on the day succeeding the outrage 
just related, the 8th instant, a band of fifteen
men, led by the notorious Champ Ferguson, appeared. 
Ferguson himself wrested his musket from
the hand of a sentry (rebel), who stood at the door
of the hospital, and leaving to men to guard him,
entered the building with the rest of his gang, and
went straight to the room of Lieutenant Smith, of
the Thirteenth Kentucky cavalry. His men passed
through the door in two files, and Ferguson walking
up between them approached the bed on which the
wounded lieutenant was lying. 'How are you,
Smith?' 'How are you, Captain?' were the salutations 
first exchanged, when Ferguson, balancing
the musket on his hand, said, tauntingly, 'Look
here, Smith, do you see this?' 'For God's sake,
Captain, don't shoot me,' implored the lieutenant;
but he had scarcely uttered the words before the
other had raised the gun, and shot him through the
head. The gang now inquired for Colonel Hanson,
Thirty-seventh Kentucky mounted infantry, (commanding 
a brigade,) and Captain Dagenfield, of the
Twelfth Ohio cavalry, declaring their intention to
shoot them both.

    "By this time the surgeons and hospital attendants 
had become aware of what was going on, and
they hastened to the spot. By persuasion, and
almost by force, they endeavored to restrain these
desperadoes from carrying out their savage purposes.
Ferguson was on the point of shooting the rebel
surgeon in charge, Dr. Murphy, for daring to interfere, 
and one of his men actually presented a revolver 
at the breast of a major who chanced to be
visiting at the hospital at the time, and had volunteered 
his assistance. By argument and resistance
combined, the ruffians were induced to leave, without 
having fully carried out their murderous designs,
but swore to return at night, and complete their
work.

    "Colonel Hanson was immediately removed to
the house of a citizen to await other arrangements
for his safety, and a guard of convalescents was
raised, and placed around the hospital to resist


homes than live near the Yankees. We will get
far enough away this time."

    A sentiment of commiseration filled my heart, and
I ventured the remark:

    "May I ask where you intend to go?"

    "To Augusta, where your army can't come."

    "I would not be sure of that," I replied. "It is a
long way from Nashville to Atlanta, and are we
here."

    "O yes"--with ineffable scorn--"you will 'flank'
us I suppose?"

    "Possibly, madame."

    "Look here, sir; there are not two nations on
the face of this earth whose language, customs and 
histories are different, and who are geographically
separated as wide as the pole, but that are nearer
to each other than the North and South. There
are no two people in the world who hate each other 
more."

    "I hardly think there is the difference you describe, 
miss. It seems to me just as if you and I
were Americans, with no vital points of difference
between us which may not be settled some day.
And then, I protest against the idea that we 'hate
you.' I understand the public feeling at the North
pretty well, and such a sentiment does not exist
there generally."

    "Well sir, we hate you; we will never live with
you again. If you whip us, and any of these mean
politicians in the South (and there are thousands of
them who will be only too glad to do it) offer terms
of reconstruction, we will throw ourselves into the
arms of France, which only awaits the chance to embrace 
us."

    "Reconstruction will undoubtedly come about in
time, miss. But we shall not permit France or any
other foreign power to interfere. France would
embrace you without doubt, if she gets a chance,
but it will be the hug of an anaconda, who will 
swallow you whole, without mastication."

    "Anything rather than become subject to the
North. We will not submit to that degradation."

    "If you are defeated, you will; and then you
will have thoroughly learned what your people have
never before the war, in the slightest degree understood
--how to respect us. I assure you friendship
follows very close upon the heel of mutual respect."

    "There is much truth in that, sir, and we are
wiliing to confess that we never even believed the
North would fight; and while there is a certain
feeling of respect which has been forced upon us,
we hate you all the more now, because we despised
you before."

                       From the Lynchburg Republican.

A NEW SCHEME TO ABOLITIONIZE THE
                       SOUTH.

    It is painful to reflect how soon the landmarks of
great principles are lost amid the throes of revolution. 
For forty years the people of the South
have been battling against the mad schemes of the
abolitionists to destroy the institution of domestic
slavery. We have uniformly contended that negroes 
were property, and that Slavery was a local
institution, with which no power under the sun
could interfere, save the sovereign States themselves,
in their individual capacity. For this great principle 
of right of the States to regulate their domestic
institutions to suit themselves, we went to war with
the North, and for nearly four years have maintained 
the dreadful conflict with unexampled success.

    Just at the moment when all the gigantic schemes
of the enemy to subjugate us have failed--when 
Grant is panting for breath to renew a contest in
which he has been completely baffled, and Sherman
is toiling to escape from the coils of Hood, which
threaten the destruction of his army--just at the
auspicious moment when the bright and glorious
day of independence is about to break upon us, with
the splendor of an unclouded sun--just at such a
moment it is gravely proposed by respectable though
chimerical journals in the South to ignore all our
past cardinal principles, surrender the great question 
for which we went to war, and do for ourselves
precisely what Lincoln and the abolitionists proposed 
to do for us without war--abolish slavery!

    This is the naked proposition of those who advocate 
the conscription of our slaves as soldiers.
They propose to conscript "all the able-bodied
negroes of the country" between the ages of 18
and 45 "respectively," and arm and equip them in
the field as soldiers, along with our white men. As
an inducement to make these negroes faithful to our
cause, they are to be given their freedom, and permitted 
to live among us after the war as freemen.
The result of such a proposition, if successful, cannot 
be mistaken by a blind man or an idiot. It will
convert the sovereign States of the Confederacy
into free negro colonies, with all the social and political 
evils which attend the amalgamation of adverse
races. If our negro men are made free, then justice
and sound policy would require that their wives
and children should be permitted to enjoy freedom
along with their husbands and fathers, on the principle 
announced by The Richmond Enquirer, "that 
they who fight for freedom deserve to be freemen."
Whether this be just or not, it is very certain that
our slaves, once made freemen, and trained in the
skill of arms and the hardships of the camp and
the dangers of the battle-field, would not only
insist on their on freedom, but on the freedom of
their entire race.

    Nay, more. They would insist, and have the
right to insist at the point of the bayonet, upon enjoying 
all the civil, social, and political rights
enjoyed by their former masters, on the ground that
they had suffered equally all the dangers and
responsibilities of the struggle. The horrible re-


determine to blot out the landmarks of the past, we
would warn them to beware of such an experiment.
We think there is much danger in it. It would inaugurate 
untold evils and surrender past principles.
It would virtually accomplish that for which the
enemy have struggled in vain through a four years'
war. It would be adopting the spirit of abolitionism 
in its broadest significance. Greeley, Beecher,
Seward, Lincoln, and all the abolition horde, would
send us their hearty greeting over the passage of
such a measure. It would be a confession of greater 
weakness than four years of war have succeeded
in eliciting.

    "Make teamsters, cooks and hospital nurses of
the negro, so far as they are needed for these
purposes, and keep the remainder in the rear to
fight famine, while our white men at the front hold
in check an enemy not more formidable than the
one that would overtake us in the rear, should the 
negro be foolishly transferred from the corn to the
battle-field. The hoe is the weapon for Cuffee."

    The Milledgeville Union of the 1st inst. has the
following:

    "We are surprised to see that a few individuals
and one or two presses in the Southern Confederacy
advocate the policy of making soldiers of our
negroes. We believe that negroes could be used to
advantage as teamsters and cooks, in hospitals as
nurses, in many places as mechanics where white
men are now employed. They could be used also
in many places in the ordnance, commissary and
quartermaster's departments, and thus release many
thousands of white men who would make good soldiers. 
But to put arms in the hands of our slaves,
and make soldiers out of them, or to free them for the
sake of making soldiers of them, should never be
thought of for one moment. Every sentiment of
honor, manhood, and sound policy forbids it."

    The Recorder also comes out strongly in opposition 
to this dangerous policy. Let the thought be
crushed to earth, never to rise again.

THE SLAVE CONSCRIPTION.

    A correspondent of the Richmond Enquirer writes
as follows, in opposition to the proposed conscription
of slaves:

    "Gentlemen: In the Enquirer of the 18th ultimo
you advance and recommend the proposition to
conscript the slaves of the South for the purpose of
making soldiers of them, and claim for the Enquirer
the honor or merit (which I suspect none will dispute 
with you) of being the first to advance it.

    "Can it be possible that you are serious and earnest 
in proposing such a step to be taken by our
Government? Or were you merely discussing the
matter as a something which might be done?

    Have you thought of the influence to be exerted
by these half or quarter million of free negroes in
the midst of slaves, as you propose to leave them at
the end of the war? These men constitute the 
bone and sinew of our slaves--the able-bodied
between eighteen and forty-five. They will be men
who know the value and power of combination;
they will be well disciplined, trained to the use of
arms, with the power and ability of command; at
the same time, they will be grossly and miserably
ignorant, without any fixed principle of life or the 
ability of acquiring one. The camp and the battlefield 
are not considered the best school of virtue.
With habits of idleness learned in camp, with no
fixed business in which to engage, they will be a
class by color and circumstances proscribed and unable 
to rise. Then, again, these men must have
their wives and children slaves, subject to all the 
restrictions of slavery, while they are to enjoy all
the privileges of freedom. Will not this necessarily
make them discontented? or, if not, you ought
in gratitude, and, perhaps, in policy, to free their
wives and children. This will give you, instead of
half a million, a million and a half or two millions
of free negroes in your midst. That is more than
one half of the present slave population of the Confederate 
States.

    "How long could slavery last under this strain?
Is not your proposition abolitionism in disguise?
No, Messrs Editors, we could not live in a country
inhabited by such a class. Either they or we would
be forced to leave. Which would it be, and where
and how would they go? Abraham Lincoln emancipates 
all he can steal. You would take and emancipate 
one-half at a word, or, at all events, you
would take and emancipate that portion without
whom the other portion would be valueless, and a
charge upon the country. No, our cause is not so
desperate, nor its condition so low, as to need the
aid of an army of free negroes. There are stout
arms and brave hearts enough among the white men
of the Confederacy to win and secure its freedom;
and he who would call upon the poor ignorant
slave to fight his battles for the boon of a worthless
freedom must not only be deeply despondent, but
regardless of the duties he owes to his country, to
his negro, and himself. It is not for the slave either
to win his freedom for the white man, as you would
have him, or to take the yoke of subjugation upon 
him, as would the Yankee. But it is for the Southern
white man to achieve his own independence, to
secure himself in the possession of his slave, and to
secure to the slave the secure possession of a good
master."

CHARLES G. AMES.

    It is very seldom that the Fraternity introduces
to its audience an entire stranger. This year when
the name of Charles G. Ames was offered it, it
asked, as the public have since done, "Who and