Equal Suffrage in Florida
Mrs. Roselle C. Cooley (Florence Murphy Cooley) president of the Florida Equal Franchise League, editor-in-chief of the Suffrage Edition of The State, Florida Vice-President of the Southern States Suffrage Conference, member Political Equality Club of New York.  Mrs. Cooley is also ex-corresponding secretary general of the United Daughters of the Confederacy, a member of the National Society of the Daughters of the American Revolution, of the Woman's Club of Jacksonville, of the Association for the Preservation of Virginia Antiquities, and is secretary of the Board of Lady Managers of St. Luke's Hospital, and is an authority on parliamentary law.  Her little manual on this subject, entitled "T Presiding Officer," is used by individuals and clubs throughout the country.
In June, 1912, the first Equal Suffrage meeting in Florida was called, and about thirty women met in a drawing room to organize.  This was at Jacksonville, and the Florida Equal Franchise League was formed.  In less than one year this league had aroused so much interest in Florida that one of the leading attorneys and statesmen took up their amendment to the constitution granting full citizenship to women and so successfully championed it that the whole state was aroused and amazed at the hold of the modern movement, "votes for women," in the peninsular state.
Several women in mid-life, some society girls, and the rest between the two, took up the work, and now ante-bellum ladies are enthusiastically urging the right to say for themselves just who shall hold office and what tax shall be levied on the property that they own.
Even conservative Virginia began in 1900 and other Southern states followed, but Florida has taken suffrage on the flood tide, and has not had to "educate" her people, for Florida has a free and happy population, people who have as a motto, "Live and let live," and many of the men are ready to say "Yes, come and help us.  We need you, and you have never had the position that belongs to you."
The officers elected at the first meeting were Mrs. Katherine Livingston Eagan, president; Mrs. Roselle C. Cooley, first vice-president; Mrs. Herbert L. Anderson, second vice-president; Mrs. E. M. Sanderson, treasurer; Mrs. Frances Anderson, corresponding secretary; Miss Ethel McCoy, recording secretary.  Mrs. Eagan being far from well and going to Paris to be with her family, left Mrs. Cooley, the vice-president, to preside.  She is a native of Florida, having a state-wide acquaintance.  The work was vigorously taken up, and Mrs. Cooley had the able support of the other members of the board.  At the presenting of the constitutional amendment at Tallahassee in April of 1913, the ladies of the conservative old Tallahassee came boldly to the front, and from five to twenty were present both in the house and in the senate when the bill was under consideration.
Invited to appear before the committee on elections, the ladies expected to appear in "A" or "B" committee room, and when the reinforcements arrived from Jacksonville prepared to say "Please" in quite a private way, behold a joint committee of the whole, in the evening, and the House of Representatives paced to the doors and out into the hall, where people stood on chairs to see and hear.  Mrs. Cooley said: "I shall have to say as the men do, 'I am sorry I can not do as I have seen men do and take out a carefully typewritten paper.  But we shall present our cause and trust that the committee will give it a favorable report."  And so the matter was on.  Miss Jeannette Rankin, of the National Suffrage Association, spoke, Miss Anderson spoke, Miss Safford, of Orlando, spoke, Mrs. Victor Starbuck, of Orlando, spoke, Mr. John H. Williams, of Jacksonville, Mr. Huffaker, of Tallahassee, and house member, Hon. William Mapoles, spoke.  Mrs. Cooley introduced them, and rounds and rounds of applause greeted each speech.  And then what do you think happened?  The roll of the committee was called, and the first man called, who had told us he would vote for the amendment, voted "No."  Now, women are used to emergencies, household complications, cook with a misery in her side, children suddenly ill, husband insisting on dying because he has a mysterious pain, hers is a life of surprises to be calmly met and quickly overcome.  But a man, and a large, good looking man, to say "Yes, madam, I will vote for your bill," and then to sit before hundreds of people and say in a loud voice "NO"!
Well, no one fainted, but the suffrage delegation suffered a distinct shock.  So we came through the committee, but without recommendation, owing to the supposedly feminine prerogative of our fickle friend in changing his mind.
We made friends for our amendment, and had the best men in the house working for it.  We had an amendment, prepared by one who knew, and it was a good amendment.  But when the author of this studied the present constitutional clause on voting, she suggested that the present clause be amended by striking out the word "male."  This seemed simple and conclusive, and easy and comprehensive.  But our male champions said "no, just let us run this."  So we were meek and lowly, we were pushed along and along and finally secured a vote, 27 to 38.  Now, this was wonderful.  New York was twenty years, we are told, in getting a suffrage amendment reported through one committee.  But this was not winning.
We had no legislative fund.  We were staying at Tallahassee, each woman at her own expense, the little money that we had we gave to a detective to tell us if our woman's intuition was right, and it was, so we started home with mixed feelings of success and defeat.  A senator said:  "Well, ladies, you are not going to give up are you?  You surely are coming into the Senate.  I will see you through.  Do not be discouraged.  We want you in the senate; we want to show the house how to treat you.  You can win in the senate all right."  So we felt it a duty to go back after the week-end at home and arrived on Monday with the rest of the members of the senate.  The "Third House" we called our party.  Senator Cone, of Columbia, took up our bill and put us on the special calendar.  Has suffrage had this honor in any other state?  Each senator can name one bill, this special calendar is limited to one bill from each member, and no business can be transacted until this calendar is finished, or at least that is the rule.  But do not think that rules can not fail.  Some member was absent from some other bill that was first on the calendar, some train had run over a cow and a railroad attorney member had gone home to see that the poor farmer got only ten dollars from the railroad attorney that all important business must wait until he came back, and so "we" legislated on finishing in brooks and creeks all over Florida, collectively and separately, we told just how many inches the dear little oysters must be before they could be taken from their warm beds, we talked with tears in our voices of the dear little pink shrimp that were seized and canned in infancy, we made two new counties, we gave with great gusto enlarged facilities to towns never before heard of.  and we lost time at six dollars a day.  Women are naturally economical.  They make a dollar do the work of a dollar and a half.  I confess that I never even at Palm Beach saw as much money wasted as was wasted at Tallahassee in paying men to block legislation.
We were finally made a special order.  We had also come through the senate committee, and had spent weary days waiting.  Now we were to have a hearing, and to know just what was to happen.  We were promised a sure success in the house if we passed the senate and went back.  So what do you think happened?  A man made a motion to indefinitely postpone to the suffrage amendment, and we had sixteen votes pledged to us, against fifteen not pledged, but even two of those gave us not made up their minds.  Well, the vote was called, and we had fifteen to sixteen.  So we were postponed.  And the reason given by the several men was that it was getting late in the session, and the suffrage amendment would cause more debate than any other question, so was best left out.  It would "waste time" we were told.  WASTE TIME!  Never have I seen so much time wasted since I came into the world.  What the Florida legislature needs is about two thrifty housekeepers to move things along.  If men go home and leave their bills that should be the loss of their constituents.  Should other men sit at six dollars a day each and cut a rock out of the Dofunny brook in County Nowhere.
However, the women of Florida did better than women in the other states in coming through both committees and having so many friends for the bill in the first legislature in which it was presented.  We now have in Florida suffrage leagues at Jacksonville, Orlando, Miami, Lake Helen, Milton, Pensacola, Zellwood, Tallahassee, Tampa, Ruskin, Pine Castle and Winter Park, hundreds of women throughout the state, men friends of equal rights all over the state, and a Men's Suffrage League at Orlando.
And why not?  There is just one point in suffrage.  It is not 'what will women do with the vote,' it is not pre-suffrage promises, it is not greater purity in living conditions, it is only this: Has woman the same right as man to the ballot?  So far no man or woman has given one single reason why she has not.
The Florida Equal Franchise League hereby returns thanks to all persons who have assisted to make this Suffrage Issue of The State the great success that it is, and asks careful consideration of all thinking people as to why women have been for so many years set apart as a class by themselves.  Honestly now, don't you think it strange?  Women are people, they are half of the Caucasian race, they do one-half the work of the world, they train and educate the boys for good citizenship.  Is there one good reason why they may not cast a vote for the men who are entrusted with the making of the laws?  We challenge any reader of this paper to send us one good reason.
WHY WOMEN SHOULD VOTE.
(From a man's standpoint.)
First, I would say men and women were created in the likeness of God without discrimination or distinction.  Second, the expression of the right of franchise or the ballot is a God-given right and women have as good right to it as men.  A woman is man's equal intellectually and often his superior in intuitive instinct.  In questions of moral nature, her decisions between the right and wrong of a thing are nearer right than man's.  She needs the ballot for self-protection, a shield and weapon, when she is left with the whole family dependent on her.  She should have the ballot that she might enjoy the highest freedom that civilization implies.  The psychological effect on generations to come would be marvelous.  To stop the awful expense put into war preparations used to destroy mankind, instead of civilizing and educating him.  To assist to operate a government that approximates something like justice to all men.
These are a few of the reasons why women should have the ballot.
C. W. BALDWIN, St. Petersburg.
SUFFRAGE GAINS.
Charles M. Thomson, member of the house from Illinois, is out with a flat-footed declaration in favor of woman suffrage.  "There is not one sound reason," said he, "that I have ever heard advanced why women should be denied the right to vote.  The real question is not why women should have the ballot.  The question is why she should not have it."  Much more along the same lines Congressman Thomson said which shows that he has a proper idea of the rights of the people.  He stated in unequivocal terms that he would support the resolution granting to women the right to vote.
Congressman Sydney Anderson, of Minnesota, says that the suffrage sentiment in his state is growing and he believes that it is so strong that the next Legislature will without doubt submit the question to the people.  He added that the success of woman suffrage in Norway had exerted a great deal of influence in making woman suffrage popular in Minnesota, where there are a great many people of Norwegian descent.
VOTES FOR WOMEN MARATHON.
Mrs. Robert La Follette, suffragist, and Miss Lucy Price, of Cleveland, an anti-suffragist, are going to debate sixty-five times on sixty-five successive days beginning July 1st.  They will tour Ohio, Indiana, Michigan and Pennsylvania under the management of the Coit-Aber Chautauqua Company.
