Saturday, April 12, 1913
?ning Bulletin, Providence, R. I. Saturday April

have a good and
instrument."
ins, it is quite possi-
meetings will be held,
suffrage speeches will be
ways the woman suf-
the same methods
political party, except it 
cause rather than for

pointed at yesterday's
H. A Thomas, Miss
and Miss Nettie Bauer
Caroline Dowell and Miss
?ard 2; and Mrs. Vinton
wtucket.
was appointed Field

announced that Mrs. Mary 
one of the leaders of
Massachusetts, would speak
on "The Woman Suffrage
soon to be announced.

?GISTS MEET
GANIZATION
E MOVEMENT

er of Woman Inter-
hode Island Suffrage
Officers.--Plan to 
?ouses of City in Ef-
Vote.

held yesterday 
street, a small
Woman Suffrage
their first    steps
elected   officers and
an ext   campaign

was   in response to
    members of the
studying campaign
ates and who have 
ians for a similar move-
suffragists were called.
James W. Algeo, who 
?porary and later general

during the afternoon cen-
t the details of the pro-
house canvass which the
party are planning. Mrs. 
this plan, mentioning that 
at the names of all who
 in the woman suffrage
rolled by this method.


Mrs. James W. Algeo
Chairman of Woman's Suffrage
Organization

   gave a general outline of what the
rty stands for elsewhere, emphasizing
the fact that is is by no means detracting 
from the other suffrage organizations,
but that on the other hand, it is proving
"the greatest possible assistance. What
we want," she said, "is to get at the people 
by and large to find out how they 
stand in regard to the suffrage question.

NEW YORK METHODS.
   Mrs. Algeo described the methods followed
in New York city, quoting from
Mrs. Catt's methods of work. She explained
that the first question to be considered
when the campaign of work is
fairly inaugurated was whether the unit
of effort chosen should be the Assembly
districts, of which, she said, Providence
contains 25, or the wards. 
    If the latter basis is used it would require,
she said, a leader for each of the
ten wards, and by this leader captains
should be appointed to canvass each of
the ten wards' districts and enroll the
names of those favoring suffrage.
     This question was discussed informally,
the consensus of opinion being in favor
of the ward system of division, although
it was admitted that once fairly established,
with the party extending it sphere 
of influence throughout the State and in
towns where there are no wards, it might
be deemed advisable to adopt the other
plan later.
    Mrs. Algeo spoke of the work in Boston,
where she had spent some time
studying the situation. In answer to
numerous questions she made it clear
that the Woman Suffrage party was to
be absolutely non-partisan and entirely
independent of any existing organizations,
although among the 72 names already enrolled 
were many that belong to both
the Woman Suffrage Association and the
College Equal Suffrage League.
    In answer to the query, "Will not this
new organization tend by a division of
interests to weaken the existing organizations?"
Mrs. Algeo quoted Mrs. Mary
Hutcheson Page of Boston to the effect
that the association has done more to
develop interest than have all the others.

LACK OF LEADERS
     It was explained that there would
naturally be difficulty in obtaining at
first the leaders and captains required
for the house-to-house canvass proposed.
The same difficulty, she said, had been
met elsewhere. She added: "We can only 
hope to get really established in three
or four years. Mrs. Catt had to dedepnd
upon temporary leaders to develop her
districts."
    As a result of the varied discussions
Mrs. James W. Algeo was chosen general 
chairman; Mrs. Sarah L. Fitz, secretary;
Mrs. George W. Parks, treasurer; 
Mrs. Max Ableson, field organizer.

Several volunteer leaders were found,
among them Miss H. A. Thomas, Miss
Gertrude Lawson, Miss Bower, Mrs.
Caroline Dowell and Mrs. V. I. Reynolds
of Pawtucket. A few instructions as to
their duties were given and the question
of holding neighborhood meetings discussed.
     It was voted to ask Mrs. Page to come
to Providence to speak at a meeting
which should be held in Manning Hall at
the call of the committee.



THE PROVIDENCE JOURNAL Saturday, April 19, 1913
SUFFRAGISTS PLAN BIG MEETING.
Rhode Island Organization Holds Its
First Session

   The Rhode Island Woman Suffrage
Party yesterday afternoon held its first
session since Organization, April 11, and
laid plans for a large meeting to be held
in Manning Hall, Brown University, May
2. Prof. J. C. Dunning of the Brown
faculty is expected to be the speaker. 
   Yesterday's meeting was presided over
by General Chairman Mrs. James W.
Algeo, who, before entering upon the
definite business announced, explained in
detail some negotiations with proposed
speakers for future meetings and asked
the opinion of members respecting the
proposed subject, "Political Machinery of
Rhode Island," with the result that it
was decided to secure, if possible, Prof.
J. C. Dunning to speak upon this subject
at a meeting to held at Manning 
Hall, Friday evening, May 2. Mrs. Algeo
referred to finding a growing interest in
the different phases of the suffrage movement,
a desire to gain a better understanding
of what it meant, and this desire
she explained to the members present
was their opportunity.
    Reports were then presented by the
Secretary, Mrs. Sarah L. Fitz, and the
Treasurer, Mrs. George W. Parks, after
which Mrs. Algeo outlined what she had
done by way of propaganda during the
week. This included addressing a meeting
in the Pawtuxet Valley, where plans
were formulated for an outdoor meeting
to be held in June, arranging to speak
at Pawtucket next Monday and attending
a meeting of colored suffragists last Friday
evening who, she reported, were
greatly interested, but needed information
which she tried to give in a brief address.
    This, with the exception of what was 
styled a "tentative appointment" to speak
at Woonsocket in the near future, completed
the recital.
    Miss H. A. Thomas, the leader in the
first district, Ward 1, gave a report of the
meetings which she had been instrumental
in holding each month since December
last, and referred to two meetings
held by her among the colored 
suffragists, concluding with mention of a 
suffrage social to be held at 19 Congdon
street this evening. In connection with
the work among the colored women, Miss
Thomas told of special interest aroused
by an address made by Mrs. Maud Howe
Elliott at the Meeting Street Church. 
At this juncture Mrs. Algeo asked Mrs. 
Phillips, a colored suffragist in the
audience, to explain why she desired to
vote, and in her own fashion she made
reply, the drift of which was that she 
wanted to vote "exactly for the same
reason the men do." 
    Mrs. Max Abelson, as field organizer,
had not met with the encouragement she
had hoped for, but in very determined
fashion she avowed her purpose to keep
at it until she met success. The need of
earnest work to rouse the Jewish contingent 
from it's extreme indifference was
emphasized by Mrs. Abelson.
    Mrs. Caroline Dowell of the second ward
presented Miss Enid Pierce, at whose
house it was explained a meeting would
be held the evening of April 25.
    Some time was spent in an endeavor to
discover with exactness the boundaries
of the ward districts in order that the
captains and leaders fully understand the
territory they are to cover. 
    Mrs. Van Everen of Arlington avenue
was enrolled as leader in the fifth district
of the second ward, and a meeting at
her house was planned. 
    Mrs. Algeo gave description of the careful
way in which leaders and captains
of the Boston Woman Suffrage party kept
the books recording visits made and the 
results pro and con. This, she explained,
would be of invaluable assistance in the
future and prevent needless duplication
of effort, and she urged each leader to
obtain her book without delay.


Citizens of the Sixth Ward
You are cordially invited to attend a
Mass Meeting
in Freedom Hall,
Corner Oxford and Eddy Sts.,


The Evening Times, Pawtucket, R.I.   Tuesday, April 22, 1913

LOCAL SUFFRAGISTS
TO TAKE UP THE FIGHT
Mrs. Algeo Outlines Plans For 
Furthering Movement in 
this City.

    A plan to swing Pawtucket into the
onward march of equal suffrage was
outlined by Mrs. James W. Algeo  of
Providence to a gathering of Pawtucket
women in the parlor of Miss
Althea L. Hall's home at 188 High
street, last night. If this plan is followed
out the equal suffrage adherents
in this city will have six ward leaders,
three captains in each ward, monthly
meetings in various wards, meetings of
leaders to shape the general plan of
campaign, and public meetings, (indoors
or out) as the occasion may require, 
with prominent speakers to help boost
the cause.
     The leaders and captains will be furnished
with guide books giving rules
for successful organization. Step by
step, these books will point the way
to a machine as strong and powerful
by comparison as the Tammany organization 
of New York or the anti-Democratic
Society of this city.
    Woe to the candidate for office who
openly opposes equal suffrage in these
parts. Working along strictly political
lines and using well-defined political
methods invented by men, the local
suffragists will set him up as a target
and bring all possible pressure to bear
against his candidate.
    Mrs. Algeo is president of the Rhode
Island College Equal Franchise League,
and came to Pawtucket to speak to interested 
women at the invitation of
Miss Hall. About 20 women made up
her audience. She told her experiences
in the now famous Washington
parade, where she headed the Rhode
Island delegation, and then went on to
tell why women want the vote, how
to get it, and what to do with it.
    Speaking of the Washington parade,
Mrs. Algeo said that the deadliest "insult"
offered her in that famous procession 
was "Three cheers for Little
Rhody," or "There goes Brown," or
"There Goes Pawtucket." A woman in
the audience said Pawtucket should be
proud of the mention. 
    But while the Rhode Island delegation
suffered nothing more severe than
this from the Washington "mob," Mrs.
Algeo said the treatment accorded
other delegations was exasperating. It
so happened, she said, that when the
Rhode Island delegation swung down
Pennsylvania avenue toward the end
of the line the troops had arrived and
order had been restored.
    Mrs. Algeo tod her audience that the
equal suffrage party is well started in
Rhode Island, and that new additions
are being made to the organization
every day. She said the work of organization
in Providence has extended
into districts where colored women are
numerous, and that great things are
being accomplished in Newport and
other places.

OFFICERS ELECTED AT
FREE BAPTIST CHURCH


[*P.T. Friday, Apr 25:13*]

Suffrage Meeting Today
The Woman's Suffrage Party will hold
an important meeting at the music school
of Mrs. Cross, 256 Meeting street, this
afternoon at 3:30 o'clock. The programme
will consist of reports from 
the various district workers and an announcement 
of the next big meeting of
the party, to be held at Manning Hall,
Brown University, on the evening of May
[?] when Prof. Dunning of Brown will
speak on the topic "The Political Machinery
of Rhode Island."


THE PROVIDENCE JOURNAL, TUESDAY, APRIL 29, 1913

Free Lectures at Brown
Claude C. Ball will speak at Manning
Hall, Brown University, Friday evening
at 8 o'clock on "The Election Machinery
of Rhode Island." On the following
evening Prof. Dunning will talk on "Political
Machinery of Rhode Island." These
lectures, which are to be free, will be
given under the auspices of the Woman
Suffrage party.


THE PROVIDENCE JOURNAL, WEDNESDAY, APRIL 30, 1913

Will Hold Suffrage Meeting.
Mrs. Jerome M. Fittz will address the
Suffrage Party of District 1, Ward 1, at
the home of district leader, Miss
Helen A. Thomas, 54 Meeting street,
this evening. The speaker, who
formerly lived in New York city, will
tell of the work of the suffragists there.
Tea will be served after the meeting.


SATURDAY, MAY 3, 1913

PRACTICAL POLITICS IS TOPIC
Claude C. Ball Addresses Rhode Island
Woman Suffrage Party

    Claude C. Ball, Progressive party candidate
for Congress in the Second District
last fall, explained the first principles
of practical politics at a meeting
of the Rhode Island Woman Suffrage
party last evening in Manning Hall.
    In an informal talk, Mr. Ball explained
in detail most of the more important
election laws, laying particular stress
upon the effort made by the State to 
protect the ballot, both before and after
it has been used.
    General Chairman Mrs. James W. Algeo
opened the meeting with an explanation
of the work of the party to date. She
pointed to the growth of the suffrage
movement in other States, and predicted
that the next few years would witness
a like expansion of the party in Rhode 
Island.
    A resolution was passed by the gathering,
requesting Congress to take a favorable
action upon the woman suffrage amendment
now pending before one of the 
Senate committees, and a copy of the
resolution will be transmitted by the
party secretary to Washington.
    Reports were read by Mrs. Max Abelson,
one of the field organizers, and by
Miss H. A. Thomas, the leader in the 
First Assembly District. Before adjournment,
Mrs. Algeo announced that Prof. 
J. C. Dunning of Brown University will
address a similar meeting to be held
next Friday evening.