The American Real Estate officers came out last week and called Commissioner Dower to account and in- [???]

Man Tailored
Norfolk
Suit

at $9.65
Value
$12.50.
Order
No. B. V
665

Made of the World Renowned
Genuine Palm Beach Cloth
In Natural Tan Color Only.

Genuine
Palm Beach
Cloth

REGISTERED U.S. PATENT OFFICE.
None Genuine Without Above Label.

Jacket, Norfolk strapped front and back, with two patch pockets, trimmed with large pearl buttons: skirt full flare with two patch pockets, high waist line, basted hem. Seams in jacket and skirt neatly bound.
   Suit can be laundered and will not shrink or crush. Adoptable for all purposes.
   Made in ladies sizes 32-46 bust. Misses, sizes, 14-16-18. Skirt length. 36-42.
   Money refunded if not satisfactory. Will be sent Parcel Post upon receipt of Money Order.

M. & C. SPECIALTY CO.,
R.965, 3-W. 23rd St. New York
—————————————————————
It is declaredthat there have been several violations of the liquor laws in the city and town of Meriden, but that the violators have escaped scot free and are now able to laugh in the faces of the prosecuting ojcials.
   The police have discovered one or two violations of the cider law and the accused dealers and dispenser were brough before the court and were prosecuted by Prosecutor Aubrey.
He received $10 for his trouble in each case, but what he has gotten out of his "sinecure" would hardly buy him a decent suit of clothes.
   Prosecutor Aubrey was representative from Meriden in the last legislature. Many people seem to be of the opinion that the gentleman has not interfered with anyone during the past year as it is alleged that the Republican party are endeavoring to the best of their ability to placate the sallon element and get the liquor dealers and their following to vote the Republican ticket in December.
—————————————————————
insinuated that he had issued his edict without carefully or even intelligently looking into all the facts in the case. The commissioner has answered the officers of the company by telling them to look towards the bank commissioner's office at the capital.
   It is expected that during the coming week the bank commissioner's office will issue a statement for the benefit of the ones who now own and control bonds and stick in the real
estate concern. The stockholders are considerably worked up over the affair. Hartford stockholders held a meeting last week and voted that they had every confidence in the real estate company.
   The absorbing question is: Was Commissioner Dower right or wrong, about his sizing up of the American Real Estate company? If the commissioner made a serious mistake and the company is perfectly solvent they will endure a period of hardship that may hurt their business considerably in this immediate vicinity.
   If the company is not perfectly sound financially it is about time that the bound and stock holders were made aware of that fact. There appears to be considerable difference of opinion in regard to this matter and the developments as soon as the bank commissioner
takes hold and publicly announces his decision will interest a large number of people.
   Bonds and stock are owned in Willimantic, New Britain, Middletown, and in nearly all the smaller towns surrounding the capital city. If the company is financially embarrassed, there will be a gnashing of teeth and many tears shed in this immediate vicinity.
———————
   After wearing a straw hat a week or two one wonders why he wasted so much time selecting it. 
—————————————————————
[???]
   Chute's story was about the same as that told by Flin. The officer was called before the chief. It is not known what sort of a defense Moffitt did make.
   Just what reason Moffitt had for visiting the Polish saloon is not known. If he was in the saloon to get a drink, either in or out of uniform, he certainly broke one of the strict rules of the local department.
   What started the tow appears to be a mystery. After it was over with Moffitt did not make an attempt to place Chute under arrest, so it was purely personal.
   Moffitt's action was looked upon seriously by the chief of police and the member of the board of public safety, it is declared, and Moffitt may possibly awaken to find that he made a serious mistake and he may be obliged to seek another clime.
—————————————————————
TO MEET BRASS CITY'S HITTERS
———————
Meriden "Cops" Are Daily Practicing For Two League Games. Silver Town Has Good Team.
———————
GOOD BATTERS.
——
   The Meriden "cops" will play ball with the Waterbury blue coated aggregation on August 10 and 19. The Meriden officers will cross bats with the Brass City men on the first named date at Readville and the Waterbury sluggers will play at Hanover Park on the 19th.
   Meriden is said to have some ball players this season. The men have been practicing for several weeks at the Hanover park grounds. They have gotten limbered up and those who have watched them play against scrub teams say that they will be able to put it all over the Brass City bunch in both games.
   Word comes from the Waterbury that the local "cops" are out every day it does not rain to practice, and that they are certain that the Meriden aggregation will go down to sure defeat when the games are played next month.
   Captain Custy is a veteran and he knows just what each and every man on his team can do and he is also aware of what they cannot do. He believes in keeping the boys working at every opportunity and, although the players find Custy a hard task master, they thoroughly understand that they must take a few hard knocks if they wish to best their wily opponents.
   Kippy Kurcon, third baseman, sprained an ankle the other day and he is daily nursing the injured member as he wouldn't miss playing in the two games for a big luscious ripe watermelon.
   Sergeant Thayer goes to the grounds daily and coaches the team to the best of his ability. The sergeant has considerable ability as a coach and he might get a good job with the Federal league if he wished to leave the police department of Meriden.
   Manager Herman has been paying more attention to the financial end of the affair recently. He is getting out a pretty little score card that will be liberally covered with advertisements of Meriden merchants. It is up to Herman to get the ball tickets out in time and see to it that all the friends of the police buy one or two for the home game.
   The lineup will probably be as follows: Captain Custy, Bonin, Doran, Kurcon, Alix, Carroll, Cole and Bartram.
   Detective Sergeant Burke will keep the boys from getting under the edge of the canvas and "Polly" Quinn will watch the flies that happen to go outside of the Hanover park fence.
   Interpreter Harris is said to be organizing a cheering company who will hurrah for Meriden even if the home team does not make one single run.
   Waterbury and Meriden have played several series in the past and the Meriden "cops" have always given a good account of themselves. If they do not play good ball this year it will not be the fault of either Captain Custy or Manager Herman. The team always has a good sized crowd and a large number of tickets are always disposed of as the funds are added to the police fund for disabled and retired police officers.
———————
HERALD ADVS. BRING RESULTS
[???]
—————————————————————
[???]
   Miss Brannigan did not even go to the trouble of hiring an attorney to look out for her interest, and she did not appear herself to either affirm or deny Sullivan's story. If Miss Brannigan is possessed of $80 worth of property Sullivan's attorney may attach. Harry M. Burke appeared for Sullivan at the city court trial.
   Sullivan claimed that Miss Brannigan had converted his property to her own use, and on these grounds he brought the suit. Sullivan is the authority for the statement that he bought the diamond at a sacrifice figure, and that it was worth considerable more than the $80 he paid for it. As diamonds have soared into the skies since the European war commenced, it is likely that Miss Brannigan will make money if she pays Sullivan $80 in cold cash, and keeps the stone.
—————————————————————
[???] tionists of the state, and they nominated him on two occasions for governor of the commonwealth. "Scoop" did not come anywhere near winning but he gave the Prohibitionists something to holler about for a long time.
   It is not known whether Mr. Parker would accept any political honors if they were offered him on a silver salver. He is a municipal employe and would be obliged to give up the lucrative job of superintendent of parks of Hartford if he were elected to the mayor's position.
  An unknown cabaret singer evidently gave Mr. Parker a prominence he could not have gained in any other possible manner. She placed her snake-like arms about his neck in the picturesque open air theater at Lake Compounce, and then it is alleged, Mr. Parker struck out straight from the shoulder. That incident will keep Mr. Parker before the people for some little time to come.
   George A. Parker might make an excellent mayor of Hartford. He has fully satisfied the park commissioners of the city for a number of years. He would greatly please all the ladies of the town; and any man who can please all the ladies of a city the size of Hartford, should be a howling success as mayor of the Greater City.
———————
BIG MOOSE CARNIVAL.
——
Waterbury Lodge Will Hold Annual Show Beginning Tomorrow. Many Attractions.
——
   The Waterbury Lodge of Moose is ready to start its big show. Everything is now in readiness for the big Moose carnival, which will open Monday, July 19, and to continue the entire week, consisting of Leon W. Washburn's Midway Shows, there will be both afternoon and evening performances. Unlike at most carnivals there will be as much doing in the afternoon as in the evening.
   The committee feels confident that everyone attending the shows will be more than satisfied, as the committee have visited the shows in other towns and have found that Leon W. Washburn's shows are much better than represented by the advance agents. There will be no contests or ticket selling on the grounds during the week. The Moose have patiently waited until the late date in order to get the best carnival show in the United States, and they feel that they are not going to be disappointed. There will be a big street parade Monday night, leaving Moose Hall, 5 Bank street, at 7:30 headed by Lieut. William J. Shanahan, of Company A, the Moose Drum Corps, the mayor, the Moose defenders, followed by the members of the lodge.
   Brother William Kiersted offered to ride one of the elephants and follow the parade, so we will see Brother Bill on Jumbo's back Monday night.
   There will be three big free acts both afternoon and night.
   Tuesday afternoon will be known as clerks' day, as there will be special attractions at all shows for the benefit of the clerks who have their only chance to visit the carnival on that day. Don't forget to pay a visit to the Country Store while on the grounds, conducted by Waterbury Lodge, No. 703.
—————————————————————
[???]as they are comfortable; may be obtained in either fine French serge or storm serge, in white navy blue or black; also in plaids and homespuns. All are specially priced at $3.75

Fifth Avenue-Madison Avenue
34th and 35th Streets          New York
—————————————————————
MEN TELL BOMB STORY TO MAYOR
———————
An Engineer Says He Heard of Plot to Destroy War Munitions Plants in Bridgeport.
———
THE TALE.
—
   Mayor Quigley of New Britain was paid a visit on Wednesday evening by a well known engineer of New Britain whose name is witheld. The visitor told his honor that hw was in New York city on June 23, and in a saloon overhead a conversation between several Germans about blowing up factories in Connecticut.
   Mayor Quigley did not take much stock in the story, but he evidently did inform several factory managers. The mayor did not intend, he alleges, to have the matter get out, and that he told the story in confidence to a New Britain newspaperman. The newspaperman jumped at the information, and the mayor alleges that he forgot all about his confidential promise.
   There appears to be one rather peculiar coincidence that cannot be explained at the present time. Eugene Davis, of Plainville, an old man who was a spy in the Union service during the war of the Rebellion, tells of overhearing three or four men plotting in the rear of his barn on June 20. He alleges that they were trying to induce another member of the party to acquiesce to the plan of blowing up New Britain, Hatrford and Bridgeport properties.
   The engineer whose name is withheld by Mayor Quigley claims that he overheard the plot in a New York city saloon in the 23rd day of June. Then comes the Davis story of hearing men talking about bombs three days previous, on June 20.
   It is not known that Eugene Davis is acquainted with the engineer or that the two men ever exchanged confidences. It does appear, however, that Davis really believes the yarn, and that he has not only visited the manufacturers of New Britain and told his tale of woe, but he has written the police and has also paid the mayor a visit.
   Just why Davis should tell a story of this nature before any newspaper printed the facts, and that the engineer should also go to the mayor with practically the same tale, is unexplained at the present time.
   If there is a plot in the works to blow up Connecticut factories, it would be a good idea for the factory owners and to take every possible precaution, and the police of the state should endeavor to arrest every suspicious character.
   In New Britain on Saturday, the story was laughed at by the police, the mayor and factory managers. But many careful, conservative citizens seemed to be of the opinion that the story had many peculiar features, and should not be laid aside without a proper investigation.
———————
HE NEEDED IT.
——
   "Do you love sister Clara, Mr. Simpson?" asked the little brother frankly of the caller.
   "Why, Willie, what a funny question!" replied the astounded Mr. Simpson. "Why do you ask that?"
   "Because she said last night she'd give $1 to know and I need $1."
———————
HERALD ADS. SHOW BIG RESULTS