July 2nd 1910
"AT ANY COST."
    In England, the Cabinet Ministers
held a long conference to decide
whether they should grant the request
of the "Conciliation Committee"
to let the woman suffrage bill come to
a vote in the House of Commons. All
the large woman suffrage societies, 
militant and non-militant, had united
in asking them to do so, and the executive 
committee of the Women's 
Liberal Federation had backed up the 
plea by a unanimous vote.
    The dispatches to the American 
press are meagre and vague to the 
last degree as to the outcome of the
conference. The situation was simple.
The thirty-eight members of Parliament 
constituting the Conciliation 
Committee set forth in their letter
that "the present House of Commons,
like every House which has met since 
1870, shows a majority for woman suffrage.
Indeed, while over 400 members
are know to be favorable, not
more than 70 have declared themselves 
hostile." The Cabinet, like
Speaker Cannon, can smother any bill
by refusing to let it come up for third
reading and final vote. For forty
years the woman suffrage bill has
been thus treated, and impatience
with the delay has led to all the 
actions of the "militant" suffragettes.
They were bent upon forcing the
Cabinet to cease blocking the bill. 
    The Conciliation Committee announced 
that they had framed a compromise 
bill which the suffragists of 
all parties in Parliament had agreed
to support. They asked the Cabinet
to give them facilities to bring it to a
vote. As the outcome of the conference 
was unsatisfactory to the suffragists,
it is plain that the Cabinet 
has refused.
    Miss Christabel Pankhurst is reported
as saying that they are determined
to have their bill brought to a 
vote "at any cost." The cost that the
women have already paid in labor and
suffering has been without precedent.
It is painful to think that, if the Cabinet 
remains obstinate, the troubles 
must recommence.
    As for the cost in cash, the suffragists 
in England pour out money
like water. In 1906, the receipts of
Mrs. Pankhurst's society were $13,000;
in 1907, $35,000; in 1908, $100,000; 
in 1909, more than $263,000. And
Mrs. Pankhurst's society is only one
of sixteen National Suffrage Associations
in England, all working for the
same end. When so many women are
so much in earnest as this, the handful
of politicians that has so long held
back their bill from coming to a vote
might as well give in. Sooner or
later they will have to do so. It
would be better to do it with a grace.
                                     A. S. B.

July 9th 1910
VICTORY IN SIGHT IN ENGLAND.
    The Cabinet's conference over the
question whether they should give
facilities for the suffrage bill to come
to a vote was reported by the cablegrams
to have resulted unsatisfactorily
to the women. All that the friends of
suffrage wanted was to be given the
time absolutely necessary to put their
bill through its successive stages in
the House of Commons. It lay with
the Cabinet to grant them the time for 
this or to refuse it.
    So far as can be gathered from the
meagre despatches, the ministry would 
not promise to give time for the bill. 
This aroused strong popular displeasure. 
Mrs. Pankhurst gave notice that, 
if the bill was again smothered and
not allowed to come to a vote, her society
would being a militant campaign
more strenuous than any of their
former ones, and that their preparations
for it were all made. The Women's
Freedom League, led by Mrs. Despard, 
declared that they would refuse 
to pay their taxes and would go to 
prison. The non-militants were equally
indignant, and their president, Mrs.
Millicent Garrett Fawcett, said that 
they would adopt "harsher measures" 
than those of the past, if red tape were 
still applied to block their bill. The 
public was disgusted at the prospect 
of a renewal of all the disturbances of 
the last few years, in an aggravated 
form. Their sentiments were those of 
the omnibus driver, whose vehicle was 
wedged immovably in the cheering 
crowd watching a huge procession of 
suffragists. He shouted to a policeman, 
"Aw, give 'em the vote, but don't 
block the traffic!"
    It seems that the pressure of public 
opinion has been too strong for Mr. 
Asquith. The despatches now announce 
that the Cabinet has granted
July 11 and 12 for the discussion of 
the bill, and that the suffragists have
"scored heavily" in securing this concession.
                                     A. S. B.

THE SCOPE OF THE BILL
    Now that the suffrage bill in England
seems likely to pass, there will 
be general interest as to its scope.
    Mr. H. N. Brailsford, secretary of 
the "Conciliation Committee" in Parliament,
points out in a recent article
that the bill is democratic. It will enfranchise
over a million women, 82 per
cent. of them women belonging to the
working people. A bill, giving suffrage
to women on exactly the same terms 
as to men, would have enfranchised
about 1,250,000 women. As Miss Christobel
Pankhurst expresses it, "What
the bill does it to admit women to the 
larger and more important franchises, 
while excluding them from certain 
minor franchises." She points out 
that only about 10 per cent. of the 
present male voters have the ballot in 
virtue of those "minor franchises" 
which this bill does not extend to 
women. The women who will be able 
to vote under it are: 
    1. Any woman who owns a house
and lives in it. 
    2. Any woman who rents a house
and lives in it. 
    3. A woman who rents any part of 
a house and has full control over that 
part, even if it be only one room, and 
no matter how low the rent.
    4. A woman who is a lodger, not 
having full control over her own room, 
but paying not less than $50 a year 
for it unfurnished. 
    5. A woman having a shop, office or 
business premises of any sort for 
which she pays a rent of not less than 
$50 per year. 
    The women who will get Parliamentary 
suffrage by this bill are practically 
the same women who have had
municipal suffrage in England for
more than 40 years, and who have exercised 
it, in the words of W. E. Gladstone,
"without detriment, and with 
great advantage."                    A. S. B. 

ARDMORE CHRONICLE
ARDMORE, PA., SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1915
[P?]
SUFFRAGE HAS BIG
BOOT IN ARDMORE
Enthusiastic Audience in Zion
Baptist Church Hears
Eloquent Speakers
GARRISON'S ADDRESS 
    The congregation of the Zion Baptist 
Church, of Ardmore, held a meeting
on Tuesday night under the auspices
of the Main Line Committee of 
the Equal Franchise Society of Philadelphia. 
Rev. Tilghman, the pastor
of the church, and also Recording Secretary
of the Foreign Mission Board
of the National Baptist Convention, 
with a few graceful well-chosen words, 
introduced Mrs. John A. Lafore, of 
Ardmore, who presided. Mr. Frank
Garrison, grandson of William Lloyd
Garrison, read a paper replete with
pleadings for liberty and freedom.
Mrs. Garrison, who is the great 
niece of Lucretia Mott, the great
Quaker preacher and famous Abolitionist, 
and who was mobbed in Philadelphia 
for a fearless speech on freedom, 
also spoke. She gave a delightful 
parable of Charlotte Perkins Gilman's 
called "The Stork." Mrs. William 
Winsor spoke on "Civic Betterment" 
and particularly on her own 
efforts to secure public playgrounds.
She said it had taken her thirteen
years of hard work to convince the
men of the necessity of playgrounds—
a necessity which women recognized
almost immediately—and had the 
men comprehended earlier the right 
of little children for a place to play, 
thousands of dollars would have been 
saved in taxes, as the ground has increased 
so tremendously in value, 
which might, years ago, have been
purchased for so little. 
    Miss Mary Winsor spoke most ably
in comparing the status of Western 
women to the Eastern women, recounting 
among other matters the 
gaining of equal salary for women 
teachers in the West. Another telling 
point was the asking if Western women 
were considered able to vote for 
President, why weren't the Eastern?
    The audience was large and appreciative 
and a large number of men 
and women signed the slips and became 
full-fledged members of the Suffrage
Party. The speakers of the evening 
expressed much pleasure with the 
enthusiasm of the audience and with 
their highly intelligent outlook on public 
questions of the day. 
    Before the meeting adjourned two 
committees were formed as follows: 
Men's Committee, Mr. William Smith, 
chairman; Mr. Tilghman, Mr. James 
Beasley, Mr. John Hull, Mr. Charles 
Boyer, Mr. B. W. Hill, Mr. Joseph 
Price, Mr. Alfred Jaskins, Mr. Walter 
Young, Mr. Cornelius Lucker, Mr.  
Zacharias Mann, Mr. Robert Jones, 
Mr. Abraham Armstead. Women's 
Committee, Mrs. Tilghman, chairman, 
Mrs. Jenkins, Miss Harris, Miss Mary 
Bird. 
    At the request of a number of those 
in attendance the address of Mr. Garrison 
is published as follows: 
    The struggle for freedom is as old 
as recorded history. This continent 
was settled by Europeans in search of 
religious freedom, and it has continued 
to welcome—and, thanks to the defeat 
of the selfish and cruel Immigration 
Bill—still welcomes our brothers 
and sisters from across the seas who 
come in the hope of finding political 
and economic freedom. 
    If their hopes have not always been 
realized, it is because of our failure 
to make this really a free country. 
The first settlers, so eloquent in defense 
of their own rights, cared little 
for the rights of the Indian, and 
their descendants were destined to 
establish the negation of freedom in 
the institution of chattel slavery; a 
condition so subversive of human 
rights that our political structure gave 
way under the strain. 
    Two generations ago the abolition 
of slavery stood as the symbol of liberty, 
and when emancipation came, it 
is small wonder that for a time men 
spoke of freedom as an accomplished 
fact. But violence is a bad ally for a 
just cause, and we who now speak of 
the New Freedom know that there is 
still much work ahead. Although the 
Federal Constitution was amended to 
prohibit race discrimination, we know 
that it still exists, and that it can 
only be overcome by the power of enlightened 
public opinion. We suffer 
not only from race discrimination, 
but from political and economic discrimination; 
and our laws will not be 
just and equitable until special privilege 
in all its forms has been abolished. 
    Among the varieties of political 
privilege that make for inequality the 
most important and far-reaching is 
disfranchisement—whether it be on 
account of race or sex. The vote is 
the instrument of liberty. It is not a 
privilege, but a right, and until it is 
           Continued on Page 8

           Continued from Page 7
possessed by all, our government will 
not be truly democratic. Popular rule 
demands the equal voice of all in the 
making of laws. 
    "Trust the people," said Wendell 
Phillips, "the wise and the ignorant, 
the good and the bad, with the gravest 
questions and in the end you educate 
the race. At the same time you 
secure, not perfect institutions, not 
necessarily good ones, but the best 
institutions possible while human nature 
is the basis and only material to 
build with. Men are educated and 
the State uplifted by allowing all—
every one—to broach all their mistakes 
and advocate their errors."
    We all desire just and wise laws, 
but we are not agreed as to what is 
just and wise. The only way to find 
out is by experience. If we are to 
trust to others to give us good government, 
our ideal must be the benevolent 
despot. But even if we were 
assured of a despotism which would 
remain benevolent, the human spirit 
has too strong an affinity for freedom 
to be satisfied. Our first and most 
imperative need is self-government, 
and I venture to believe that it is 
more important than good government. 
Through our mistakes, and the 
suffering which they entail, we shall 
learn in the end to be just. 
    One of the lessons to be learned 
from the insane conflict which is 
drenching Europe in blood is the 
tragic failure of the governments conducted 
by men alone. That here in 
America we are attempting to establish 
a truer balance of justice, by calling 
to our assistance the women of 
the country, is the most hopeful sign 
under the dark skies which shroud 
the world today. 
    With all his mysterious and instinctive 
aspirations, which distinguish 
him from the brute creation, man is 
still an animal formed of the natural 
elements of this terrestrial globe, and 
necessarily subject to the laws of nature. 
The laws of nature and the 
laws of God are one. Natural laws are 
in fact the essential rules laid down 
by the Ruler of the universe. It rests 
with us to discover these laws and to 
act in harmony with them whether 
they relate to our physical, social or 
moral natures. 
    It is our imperfect understanding 
of natural laws which accounts for 
the conflict and inequality in the human 
brotherhood; and so long as our 
statues are drawn in defiance of 
them, we shall continue to suffer. 
Freedom is the moral equivalent of 
the law of gravitation in the physical 