many good women who read THE REGISTER 
and believe in woman suffrage, will be interested 
in knowing something of the details 
of the first election in Colorado, in 
which women have had equal privileges of
suffrage in all respects with the men. I
was so much interested in it myself that I 
came to Denver purposely to spend election 
day and to visit the polls and see for myself 
the bearing of women as voters, the effect 
of their presence at the polls, their effect
on the crowd, the effect of the crowd on
them and the part they would take'in the
contest, and how they would appear and act
while doing it. Some six weeks before I
had visited Denver and Colorado for the object 
of seeing the women in the activities of
the campaign, their feeling of interest or indifference, 
their comprehension of public
affairs and their duties as voters, the work
they would attempt, and the work they could
properly do in the campaign, the stability 
and courage of their devotion to party and
principle, and the comparative intelligence
of them, rank and file, intelligent and ignorant, 
good and bad, as compared with
men. I had never known any reason why
women, in the sense of abstract right or
duty, should not vote as well as men. I had
felt, in my judgment, in passive resistance
to woman suffrage, only the fear that participation 
in public affairs might in some degree 
be hurtful to the delicacy and tenderness 
of refined womanhood; that it might
make women more assertive, more masculine, 
less feminine and therefore less lovable. 
     Having seen them in September in the activities 
of an actual and very exciting political 
campaign, and in which at least 90 per
cent of all good and intelligent and refined
women of this city and state were taking a 
part, not merely passively, but actively, and 
having spent the whole day Tuesday visiting 
the polls in this city, where probably
thirty thousand women voted, and 
not only voted but bore their
part in the party and public duties of the
day, I am left to the
        FRANK AND MANLY DUTY
of saying that even this last feeling or fear 
as to woman suffrage on my part is gone, 
and that the highest minded man, however
jealous and sheltering he may be of wife, 
mother, or daughter, as against contact
with any rude touch of the world, could not
have found cause for objection at any of
these polls Tuesday -- nor so far as has
been reported, at any polls in Colorado. It
must be that women cast a majority of the 
votes polled in Denver Tuesday, for in
four-fifths of the many voting places I 
visited. the woman voters were clearly in
the majority. In the country districts, it is
reported that the women voted their maximum 
strength even more nearly than the 
women in the city. Instead of rough or
vicious men, or even drunken men, treating
women with disrespect, the presence of a
single good woman at the polls seemed to
make the whole crowd of men as respectful
and quiet as at a theater or church. For
the credit of American men, be it said
that the presence of one woman or
girl at the polls, the wife or
daughter of the humblest mechanic, had as
good an effect on the crowd as the presence
of the grandest dame or the most fashionable 
belle. The difference in American and 
European deference to women I have never
seen so strikingly illustrated and proved as
in these throngs of people at the polls of
this excited and most serious election of
Tuesday. The American woman is clearly 
as much of a queen at the polls, in her
own bearing and the deference paid her, as
in the drawing room or at the opera. I feel
more pride than ever in American manhood 
and American womanhood both since
seeing these gatherings of Tuesday, where
American men and women of all classes
and conditions met in their own neighborhoods 
to perform with duty and dignity the 
selection of their own rulers and to give 
their approval to the principles to guide
such officials when chosen. No woman was
less in dignity or sweetness of womanhood
after such participation in public duties, 
and I do not believe there is a man of sensibility 
in Colorado to-day who does not love
his wife, daughter, sister or mother the more 
for the womanly and gracious manner in 
which she helped so loyally and so intelligently 
Tuesday in redeeming Colorado 
state and Denver city from misrule and the
serious dangers of communism and disorder. 
Indeed the redemption of Colorado is
        THE VICTORY OF GOOD WOMEN. 
They gave the early enthusiasm
to the work. They gave the activity
and the ardor and the resolute
spirit to win to the Republican campaign. 
Still more, they largely made the efficient 
detail organization extending to every
neighborhood and to every household, and 
every voter; and it was their patient persistence 
and tireless effort that finally 
brought all people of conscience to the polls
on election day. They perfected the registry 
lists, subdivided the list of voters, and 
enlisted the most effective workers, and 
brought the power of the tea party
and the sewing bee and all the minor 
social functions to supersede and far outdo 
the always clumsy work of the traditional 
cancus. What woman puts her hand 
to do in a good cause, is sure to be done. Colorado 
and Denver proved this Tuesday. It 
was not only largely the women who had 
perfected the lists of voters by districts and
precincts, but it was women who made up 
the neighborhood lists and women who 
watched the voting lines and checked the
voters present, and women who sent their
own or their neighbor women's carriages to 
bring in the laggard voters. 
     I was up early in the morning to see the
entrance of women into state and National



free trade and its sophistries might capture 
the women because some one had once characterized 
all women as born smugglers. 
But the women of Colorado, like all the
women of America, have
        CONSCIENCE AND INTELLIGENCE, 
and like all women everywhere, had
besides that, instinct, always so 
superior to man's reason, and 
instead of following the marsh-light
either of communism or free trade, quickly
saw the evil of both, and led the men in 
having Colorado so nobly and completely
repudiate both. Indeed, in the early summer 
when the men were wavering in the 
fight and growing nearly helpless, and when
Republican leaders were flinching in the 
conflict, and some of them going over to the 
mob and the false prophets, the women rallied 
the line, gave new energy and greater
courage to the party, and so toned up the
wavering columns of Republicanism and
good government in Colorado that new life
and new courage were imparted, not only to 
this, but to all the states adjoining, all of 
which were infected also by the new heresies 
or threatened by the new dangers to 
government and society. 
    Election morning the women, instead of 
having no interest in politics, as has always
been said, were first at the polls. From my 
window in the home of a friend I was visiting, 
I could see one voting place. 
The polls opened at 7 o'clock. By 6:30
twenty women and fourteen men were in 
the line waiting for the first chance to vote. 
All the time other voters kept rapidly coming, 
nearly every man coming with his 
wife, and the most of the men with two or
more women, often the wife and daughter, 
frequently wife, daughter and mother. It 
was rare at this poll, or at any other, that 
women came together or without men, and
during all the day I saw no woman approaching 
the polls alone. Instead, families 
seemed to come together, and the men
seemed proud of bringing all their family
of voting age to act with them in performing 
the most important duty of American
citizenship. On Capitol Hill, the home of 
the thriftier classes of people, the families
went in groups precisely as they go to 
church or theater, and the women seemed
as much at ease in this as in other places -- 
although I did not see a woman's face going 
to or coming from the polls that did not
bear in it the new light of a 
        NEW AND SMILING DIGNITY. 
     There was in every woman's face
a token of new strength and 
larger self-reliance. I had the pleasure of 
going with a kinswoman to the polls, a 
woman of as much refinement and delicacy 
as any woman in civilization could possess, 
and there was nothing in it at all to jar her
in the least, or to make me wish she was
not a voter. There is more chance of a lady
seeing or hearing something unpleasant in
passing through a crowd to the average 
theater or opera than there was in this lady
or in any lady going to these voting places
yesterday. Young women who looked too 
young to vote, and who demurely protested
to the gallant challenge of some judge or
clerk that they were not old enough for 
voters, that they were in fact more than old
enough, young looking and beautiful matrons 
voting with their daughters beside 
them, silver-haired grandmothers, with the 
light in their faces of a new joy coming in
old age to them, all mingled together agreeably, 
and made it an occasion of pleasure. 
All of them were as much ladies in this sovereign 
act of citizenship, as in dispensing 
gracious hospitality in their own
homes. One notable thing to a man experienced 
in politics was the fact that through 
the vigilance of the women, the polls were
crowded at the start and kept crowded until 
all the votes had been cast, with the result 
that eighty, and in some cases ninety-five 
per cent of the votes were polled before
noon. 
     Perhaps the most significant and reassuring 
thing in women's part in the campaign 
and election, was the fact that all the 
controlling leaders on the women's side
were not the old women suffrage war
horses who have been talking for woman 
suffrage for long years, but the society
women, or the more refined and popular women 
in the highest society of Denver, women
who until recently never dreamed of
entering politics. These women, led thereto
by the disorder and lawlessness and danger
engendered under the rule of Gov. Waite
and Populism, began agitation and organization 
last winter and spring, and organized 
numerous social political clubs, and 
held the meetings in their own homes for 
the non-partisan discussion and investigation 
of all the serious questions of government. 
The power and popularity of society
were thus brought to the help of the Republican 
cause of law and order, and safety of 
life and property. 
         SOCIETY WOMEN LED. 
     As the campaign proper came on these
society women, having gained experience 
and training from the series
of these political or domestic lyceums 
held earlier in their own homes, naturally
succeeded to the places assigned to women
on the party's official campaign committees. 
In such places they had full play for 
the exercise of their personal influence and 
social power and their influence quickly
became the mightiest of all elements in the 
contest. The old time agitators were superseded 
and stood aghast, and yet were
borne along the resistless current under
the momentum of the power of the leaders
of the social, Christian and literary life of 
Denver. 
     Now, as the campaigns of the future are
being organized and the personnel of party
committees being determined upon, the 
old agitators are protesting against these
belles and society leaders, "or the 
butterflies and flirts of fashionable Denver,"


generally at this election. If this be true 
then is it all the more important that the
women of society who control in the social
life of state and are themselves the life
of its art, literature, humanity and good
purposes, should lead and control hereafter
as they have done here. In my
judgment, woman suffrage if it
is to vindicate its wisdom and benefit
the cause of good government without
taking anything from the tenderness or
charm of women, must find its strength and
constant salvation under the impetus and
shelter of the best and most refined of
women in all the nobler and sweeter senses
of womanhood. A conversation I heard incidentally 
to-day between Mrs. Foster, who
has been the prophet and the leader prominent 
in this contest, and Mrs. Rhoads, the
chairman of the women's county central
committee, illustrated to me as it will to
everybody the spirit that has guided the
women in all political committee and election 
work. Mrs. Rhoads said:
    "I am just on my way to attend the meeting 
of all the party committees which is to
arrange for the jubilee on Monday over the
great victory. The men are proposing that
the Republican women shall walk in the
street procession. I shall protest against 
that. Such things are not for women. Ladies 
will keep within the bounds for ladies
in politics as in all other things. Therefore
we shall not do any such thing as this. We will
take part in the jubilee and attend it going
with our husbands, fathers and brothers as
we went to the polls, or as all ladies go to
theater, church, public fair, football games, 
or any public gathering. But we shall certainly 
do nothing in politics to make us subjects 
of ridicule, any more than we would in
social life."
    These were words of wisdom and self-
respecting womanhood and of the new sort
of woman suffrage. It means that in public
affairs the good women of this land will 
apply their power as they apply it in church
or charity work, or in a manner which will
make them still better and more admirable
as women and ladies rather than less. It
was this sort of woman's power, made active 
in politics and coming forward to the
help of good government last Tuesday, that
gained the three great victories in a year
of unexampled victories, or in the cities of
New York, Chicago and Denver.
    It must be remembered too by the skeptical 
people in the East, who shall read of
women voting in Colorado, and who may
dismiss it all as being the action merely of
women on the frontiers, that the people of
this state are largely from the Eastern
states themselves and that the women here
are as refined and accomplished and well
educated as in any city or state in the East.
Indeed, the choicest families of the Nation
have contributed to this state, and also to
Wyoming, their best of blood and culture --
their younger people coming here looking 
for a chance in the world, and many and
many thousand others sending their invalid 
member here to find in the sunshine
and golden air of this altitude restoration
to health. Thus the test of woman suffrage
in Denver and Colorado and Wyoming is as
complete and intelligent a test as it would
be in Boston or Brooklyn, and as complete
a test of the question of intelligence as
voters and of refinement as women.
       GOOD WOMEN IN THE MAJORITY.
    Contrary to the popular theory of those
who have always sneered at what they have
 called petticoat politics, the good women
have voted in much larger proportion than
the bad. Practically all the good women
have voted, while less than ten percent of
the others voted or even desired to do so.
In one precinct 150 women of the red as the
local phrase designates them here, were
registered, and only twelve of them voted.
The more refined circles of the great city of 
Denver have given effectual denial to the
stock argument of the antis, that good women 
would not vote if they had the chance,
and that they would be afraid to vote or
incur the publicity of voting, even if
they were enfranchised and personally
desirous of voting. They and the
other women of Colorado have also completely 
disposed of the other stock argument
that women if they should vote at all, would 
vote headlong and impulsively. For they
were as deliberate here as the men, and as
well posted on all issues. They were
not only fully informed on all public questions, 
but they furnished able speakers
from their own ranks for the discussion of 
all issues. The people and especially the
women of Iowa will be interested in knowing 
that Mrs. J. Ellen Foster, the splendid
Republican and the splendid woman, came
into the Colorado contest in March last,
and has spent nearly all the time since in
making public speeches, in exposing the fallacies 
and dangers of Populism, and in
rallying and uniting the women of
the state in favor of Republicanism and the
cause of law and order. 
    Indeed, Colorado in this election has left
very little good argument for its sincere
opponents to urge against suffrage. So
nearly all of everything having any good 
sense in it at all has been disproved here,
that the opposition is left with very few
weapons in their armory, and all of them
weak. Of course, thousands, and even 
millions, of sincere people will move slowly 
from the conservatism of the ages, and will
only come to it inch by inch under the compulsion 
of state by state, adopting woman
suffrage. Those who are far away from
these intelligent states which are giving the
departure a fair and candid trial,
and which are doing so fully conscious 
that the older states look upon it
with distrust, will not be convinced of the
truth as rapidly as those who have seen it
in actual operation, and who have seen women 
becoming voters without losing a tithe
of their charm or loveliness as women. But


solution.
    I might add that the day here was filled
with constant incidents of exceeding interest, 
too many to tell. The most striking
thing of all to me, was the act of the women
in providing creches, or comfortable places
equipped with competent nurses and suitable 
foods, for the care during the day of
the babies and small children of such mothers 
as could not go to the polls unless some
one took care of these little ones while doing 
it. These creches were provided by the 
Republican women, but were open to all,
and they cared for the children 
of Democrat and Populist
mothers as willingly and kindly as
for those of Republican mothers. To
blessed women, all babies are alike, and all
mothers are sacred. Here is the mother
instinct in politics softening into humanity.
It will do the American Nation no harm to
have this broader spirit and kinder heart in
all its elections and among all its people. 
JAMES S. CLARKSON.

THE REAL MAN-EATERS.
Savage Sea Monster of
which Infested