THE HARTFORD DAILY COURANT; THURSDAY, MARCH 4, 1915.
11

SUFFRAGE WORKERS THRONG CAPITOL TO PLEAD FOR BALLOT 

Take Possession of Hall of House and Hold It Through Hearing. 

47 WORKINGWOMEN ANSWER ROLLCALL 

Congressman-elect E. J. Hill Sends Long Telegram Espousing Cause. 

Backed by as many women as could be parked into the Hall of the House and hundreds of others who could not find spare in the huge room, the suffragist leaders who have been close to the front doors of the hall since the opening of the Legislature and on every session day took possession of the Capitol yesterday and had their turn at making the walls echo with speeches and arguments on a question that is more important to them, at least. than anything that has yet come before the assembly or is likely to come before it for many weeks. They started to besiege the fortress hours before the House convened in the morning, although their special hearing was set for 2 o'clock in the afternoon and were heralded by a bevy of little flower girls garbed in special costumes and carrying baskets of purple, white and green bouquets that they gave to everyone who would accept them. By the time the House .adjourned, at 1 o'clock, the suffragists were gathered at the doors in hordes and the moment the gavel fell announcing that the formal proceedings were at an end they swooped into the hall and filled every nook and cranny as fast as the representatives moved aside for them. 

The hearing was orderly, but not entirely free from sensation. One of the surprises was a delegation of forty-seven workingwomen who spoke two or three words apiece as their names were called for the cause they represented. Another was a long telegram from Congressman Elect E. J. Hill in favor of suffrage in which he said that anything else would be tyranny. A few flings were taken at the "antis," whose turns come today, the sharpest being from a speaker who said the reason they opposed suffrage was because they knew so little. The labor element was well represented, the president of the State Federation of Labor being one of several men who spoke In favor of suffrage. Miss Rose Winslow of New York. a working girl, gave one of the most eloquent addresses of the day, touching pretty frankly upon the relation of prostitution to the living wage and to suffrage. 

The attendance is thought to have been about 600. 

Senator Barnes, as chairmen of the woman suffrage committee, called the hearing to order on time and announced that the debate would be limited to two hours. 

Mrs. Hepburn. 

Mrs. Thomas N. Hepburn, president of the Connecticut Woman Suffrage Association gave the first address, as follows:—

"Since we appeared before these committees two years ago two more states have granted women full suffrage,—Nevada and Montana. Illinois has granted women presidential and municipal suffrage and Alaska has granted them full suffrage. Of the seventeen state legislatures that have taken up a suffrage measure at this session, the action in thirteen has been without qualification favorable. It seems strange that we should still be asking, here in Connecticut, to have 

of women who do not want to vote. But from the point of view of the referendum the suffragists and the antis prove the same thing, that woman suffrage is a live issue and that the time has come to submit it to the voters. 

"In order to give you some practical proof, if you need any after the crowds that you see here today, that there is a very real demand for a referendum on this question in Connecticut we have brought to you a petition from every town in the state. Every one of these names has been signed during the past year. The signers are all over 21 years of age; they all believe in woman suffrage and they are all asking you to submit the question to the voters. The total number of names on the petition Is 39,012. In a state like California where they have the initiative and referendum we should have a great many more names than are required to get the question before the voters without any act of Legislature at all. In order that you may know how many names come from the different parts of the state I am going to ask the county chairmen and town representatives to rise and present their petition when I call their I names." 

Mrs. Hepburn then called the names of a number of county leaders, who arose with the delegations that accompanied them, as they were called. 

"Antis" Afriad. 

Mrs. Hepburn closed by saying that she had noticed that those women who were In favor of woman suffrage were not so much afraid to entrust the question to the voters as those who are opposed to it. 

Mrs. M. Toscan Bennett. 

Mrs. M. Toscan Bennett, president of the Hartford Equal Franchise league, said, in part:—

"Women should have the right to express their opinion in the state by the use of the ballot. Full citizenship, the duty of the ballot, is the stimulus that will rouse the women. The majority of the women of California make use of their suffrage privilege. The total vote for governor at the last election in Arizona was nearly three times as great as in the previous election when men alone had voted. 

"The women who do not want the vote do not know enough to want it. The reason they do not know enough is because they have had too little experience in citizenship. The more they don't want the vote the more reason they should be given it and the more reason you should try to give it to them. 

"We ask you to withhold no longer from the voters of this state the right to pass up on this question, and we ask you to show your faith in the people, who are the soveign power in the state." 

Mrs. Bennett's speech was well applauded, especially when she cast bouquets at the "Antis." 

Mrs. Stoddard. 

Mrs. Carlos Stoddard of New Haven spoke on the reasons that women did not have the ballot when the constitution was drawn up and why they ought to have it, now. She described the educational system of earlier days, the exclusion of girls from schools and of women from nearly all except domestic activities, contrasting these conditions with the conditions of today in education and public and private life. 

Changed Industrial Conditions. 

"The great change in the social order today is due to the change in industrial conditions. Where young girls. a century ago, used to work only in their own homes under the protection of their own mothers, they go out into the world today and work in factories, stores and offices under the protection of their own watchfulness, alone. It is safe to say that there is hardly a woman of leisure in America, today, for they are all working for social reforms or in other activities. 

Some Great Women. 

"There are, for instance, the great women who are actively in politics or similar work like Julia Lathrop, Josephine Baker, Katherine Davis, Florence Kelley and Jane Addams. They did not go out into the world because of restlessness, but because they felt the call of humanity and followed their helpless children out into the open. 

"Fifty years ago you might have wanted to keep your women in the home and away from the sordid side of life. But you speak too late. They have already gone out into the saddest and most sordid side of life, and are giving their lives to alleviate the conditions they have found.

it from the point of view of a lawyer and the application of the Declaration of Independence and the state constitution on woman suffrage. He quoted the preamble of the declaration that the power of the government is derived from the consent of the governed and four of the grievances that the colonies charged to the King of England, saying that they were equally applicable to the women of today and the men of a century and more ago. 

Quoting from the state constitution the first clause of the bill of rights, which establishes equality on the part of all men, he referred it a supreme court decision exempting a negro woman from rights under it because she did not have the vote and was not, therefore, a party to the social compact of the state. He said that every woman in the state stood in the same relation under that decision. 

Women Not People. 

"Today women are not politically people," he added, "but are slaves just as Nancy Jackson was adjudged under this decision. There is a possible relief in this situation, however, and I appear before you in behalf of the hundreds of men in the state who are with the women in their fight for this relief. 

"I maintain that women suffer a grievance in that they are taxed without representation; in that they have no voice in the election of the representatives who pass laws vital to them and their children or of the judges who enforce these laws; and in that they are not even recognized as people." 

Labor Sanction. 

Julius C. Stremlau of Meriden, president of the Connecticut Federation of the Connecticut Federation of Labor, said that he had been instructed by the federation to appear at the hearing to endorse the votes for women cause and to tell the committee something about the conditions under which thousands of women in the state work. 

A Girl From the Mills. 

Miss Rose Winslow of New York was introduced as a young woman who began working in a mill when she was 11 years out and one who would tell something about factory women and their needs. She said, in part:— 

"We have been charged with being restless. Every movement that has resulted in good has arisen from restlessness. We are prone to settle in established ways of thinking and this is the only excuse I can see for the phrase that 'every woman's place is in the home,' when we all know that a tremendous number of girls and women work every day outside the home. 

"I know that my place is not in the home. I have not had a chance to sit in a home since I was a little girl. 

"When the men say that women in industry are protected, they lie. They are not protected, and they never will be until they protect themselves. It is not because men are evil but because they have too much to do for themselves. All you need to do to see how hard the men have to struggle to get decent living conditions for themselves is to look about you and watch their struggles. 

"If this is true of men, how much more true is it of women who do not have the power of the ballot or the influence of trade organizations? They do not even have the power coming from having a wage that is 'sufficient to keep the body within the shirt.' 

"The only thing to do is to try to equalize the conditions of men and women. The fact that we are undermining the strength of women in industry so as to weaken the mothers of the next generation is a strong reason for equalization. Most of the women who oppose suffrage are In comfortable circumstances. One of queerest situations I know of is that of an "anti" leader in New York who is the president of a day nursery. It is odd that a woman who believes that the place for women is in the home should spend her time caring for the children of mothers whose place Is obviously not in the home. 

Wages and Prostitution. 

"What I want you men to remember most is that we workingwomen get so low a wage that when we wish to buy a pair of shoes we have to go without meat for weeks to save the money. 

"The expectation of a great many employers of women at a $6 a week wage is that If the woolen cannot make a living honestly they can make

Moore, stenographer; Dr. Esther B. Woodward, physician. 

New London—Miss Ruby Bliven, saleswoman; Miss Mary C. Keeley, retail clerk; Mrs. William Cruise, janitor; Miss Bessie Bliron, box maker; Mrs. Mary Birmingham, clerk; Mrs. Martha Tuttle, bookkeeper; Miss Josephine O'Connell, clerk; Miss Mary Bleen, cashier; Miss Nora Connor, dressmaker. 

New Haven—Miss Elizabeth Sullivan, clock factory worker; Miss Sarah Joyner, journalist; Miss Katherine Mullen, school teacher. 

Waterbury—Miss Isabella Atkinson, bookkeeper; Mrs. Mary J. Bryan, boarding house keeper; Mrs Allen Logan, boarding house keeper; Miss Susan O'Neil, lawyer. 

Farmington—Miss Theodate Pope, architect. 

Meriden—Miss Gladys Scatty, stenographer. 

Norwalk—Miss Louise Spillane, dressmaker; Miss Frances A. Taylor, furrier. 

Danbury—Miss Margaret Griffin; Miss Margaret Foley, hat trimmer; Miss Agusta Kane, hat trimmer; Miss Anna Gallagher, hat trimmer. 

Hartford—Miss Elizabeth Flanagan, telephone operator; Miss Deborah Gross, bookkeeper; Miss Dorothy Borden, retail clerk; Mrs. Vogel, boarding house keeper: Mrs. Lawlor, milliner; Mrs. Elizabeth Byles, office worker; Miss Agnes Goghers, office worker. 

Canaan—Miss Katherine Finnigan, school teacher. 

Bridgeport— Mrs. Ruth C. Kilpatrick, journalist; Miss Ethel Hogan, office worker. 

"Besides these," Miss Pierson said, "I have received scores of letters from all over the state saying that the writers wished to be present, but could not, simply because they had to work."

Monster Petition. 

Mrs. Hepburn presented the petition previously referred to, saying that all the signatures had been obtained during the past year, that all the signers were over 21 years old, and that all wished for the passage of the resolution. 

The speaker read the county and town totals of the individual petitions which brought the mass up to a pile of manuscript several feet thick. A partial sumary of the petition follows: 

Counties—Hartford 10,011, Litchfield 2,972, Windham 1,767, New London 1,804, Middlesex 1,337, New Haven 10,849, Fairfield 9,384, Tolland 898. 

Cities--Hartford 5,626, New Britain 1,046, Middletown 431, New Haven 5,992, Waterbury 1,029, Bridgeport 2,884, Stratford 1,591. 

"When we present a petition that contains three times as many names as are necessary to obtain a referendum in any state that has the referendum law it is about time we expected for the passage of this resolution," Mrs. Hepburn said, in closing. 

At the close of the hearing Mrs. Hepburn played the trump card and read a telegram from Congressman-elect E. J. Hill, who was detained at Washington and was unable to attend the hearing in person. The message follows:—

"Washington, D. C., March 2, 1915. 
Mrs. Thomas N. Hepburn, 
Don't waste time answering prejudices and non-essentials. They have always been thrown across the path of progress and human rights and always will be. Stand on the bedrock of everlasting and eternal justice. By the fourteenth amendment to the constitution of the United States all persons, men and women, are made citizens of the nation if born or naturalized here. The nation gives citizenship, not the state, and no state can justly take from you the right to exercise its powers and privileges, by prescribing a qualification for performing its highest privileges and duties, to which It is impossible for you to attain. The very fact that this is a government by consent of the governed compels equality of citizenship and equality of voting power. Anything else is tyranny. Make the qualifications as rigid as you choose, residence, property, intelligence, anything to which the citizens of the nation can attain. Qualifications impossible of attainment mean class distinctions and in the absorption by the nation of all government and the practical abolition of state functions and control which is now going on, this means disaster to the little section of the nation that we call New England; equal suffrage is already a political necessity for us in New England. If there is but one woman in Connecticut and I trust there Is more than one, who wants now to do her full duty as a citizen of the United States she ought to would rather trust

TWO MEN KILLED BY ROCKVILLE CAR 
Smashes Into Buggy—Fleischer and Richard Samich Dead. 
(Special to The Courant.) 
Rockville, March 3. 
Paul Fleischer, aged 41, and Richard Lamich, aged 38, both of this city, were struck by a trolley car and killed this morning on the Rockville-Warehouse Point line. The accident happened about 11:10 a. m. at a point on the road between Rockville and Ellington. Mr. Fleischer and Mr. Lamich were in a buggy, driving to Ellington. Just before Mr. Lanz's place was reached a car bound for Rockville came along, and the horse reared and bolted directly across the track in front of the car. The animal escaped the car, but the wagon was struck a full blow and the men killed instantly. 

Members of the Lanz family rushed to the scene, and doctors from Rockville and Ellington were summoned. Dr. T. F. O'Loughlin of Rockville and Dr. E. A. Brace of Ellington responded, the latter being the medical examiner. They examined the bodies and said that death must have been instantaneous. Mr. Lamich had a hole in the back of his skull, and Mr. Fleischer had a fracture at the base of the brain. Both bled from the ears. Permission was given by Medical Examiner Brace to remove the bodies. Both bodies were brought to this city. 

Those who witnessed the accident say that it was unavoidable, as the horse plunged across the track right in the path of the car, and, although the motorman put on the brakes, there was no chance of avoiding the collision. The wagon was smashed. The car was in charge of Conductor Leon Pomeroy. and the motorman was Allen Hall, who was "breaking in" under the direction of Motorman Everett W. Pascal of Warehouse Point. 

Mr. Fleischer formerly conducted a saloon on Village street, but retired about a year and a half ago, taking a trip abroad. He was a member of Hartford Lodge of Elks, Hartford Saengerbund, Hartford Schuetzen Verein, Rockville Y. G. A. A., Rockville Turn Verein, Rockville Sick Society, No. 1. Reading Society, the Liedertafel Singing Society, Gesang and Declamation Society, Economic Sick Society, Naturheil Verein, Order of Harugari, Red Men and the Rockville Chamber of Commerce. He leaves a wife and child. 

Mr. Lamich, who was about 38 years old, came to this country from Germany about four years ago, working for John W. Grote, the bologna manufacturer. Two years ago he went into business for himself on Village street and was building up a good trade. He leaves a wife and child In Germany. 

MUCH PROPERTY LOST IN SUFFIELD FIRE
Grocery Store and Meat Market Burn —Three Acres of Tobacco Go Up In Smoke. 
(Special to The Courant) 

Suffield, March 3.

The grocery store and meat market conducted by Paul Los on South Main street was burned tonight. There were four buildings burned: a horse barn, carriage shed, ice house and the main building used as a market and grocery store. The house was saved. The cause of the fire, which started in the building used as a market, is unknown. It was discovered shortly after 7 o'clock by a member of the family who happened to go out or doors and found the buildings all ablaze. An alarm was telephoned to the Congregational parsonage and the church bell was rung. Both hose companies and the hook and ladder responded. When they reached the fire all the buildings were burning and the roof of the house had also caught, but this was quickly put out by the department and those assisting.