PAGE TWELVE
Canadian Girl Is Planning Contest
Would Like To Find Your Ideal Swing Singer
Dear Bud: I received my card and button and was pleased beyond words to get it. Almost instantly came fifteen letters and I am thankful that they welcome me as a new member. Bud, we should devote a little space to our member and heroine who was among the 12 famous women of the world to be presented at the Fair - the interesting part is that she is not a woman, just a mere seven year old child prodigy - Phillippa Duke Schuyler.  Well, my main reason for writing is that I would like to have a contest with the children writing to me to name their favorite bands and singers. I would send in the results. I would be happy to have you arrange something like this for me, as it would help me to be an honest to goodness member, and let me have a little responsibility. Please print this in the paper for the members to see, and write if they are in favor of it. - Jack Washington, C. P. R. Sleeping Car Dept., Winnipeg, Manitoba. 
A New Member From British West Africa
Dear Sir: I am very glad to write to you this letter, asking you to join your most interesting club. Please enroll me as a member of your club and in returning, please kindly send me one of your badges and if you have club cards, please send me one. I would like to correspond with some boys and girls. I am eighteen years of age. Ending here with best wishes and compliments to you, I am your new club member. - C. H. A. Williams, P. O. Box 141, Cape Coast, B.W.A. (Editor's Note: All letters to Africa carry 5 cent postage.) 
Short StorieS
Beehive Ventilation
If you look at a beehive on a warm day, you will notice a number of bees buzzing round the entrance. There are two groups of these bees, one inside the hive and the other outside, both of them facing the entrance. They vibrate their wings continuously and vigorously, and in this way ventilate their hive, for this fanning action by the bees creates a draught that lessens the heat considerably. Towards mid day as the heat increases, more and more bees take up the task, and if the nights are warm too, the fanning is continued. The bees work in relays ,and as one team becomes exhausted, it is replaced by another. The draughts caused by these bees are sometimes so strong that they will put out a lighted candle if it is placed near the entrance to the hive. - Um Tetele Wa Bantu.
***
Pioneer Public Library
 A Very early, if not the first, collection of books for public use in Illinois was established in 1818 at Albion. The library was begun, it is said, by several lawyers, who fitted out one of the rooms in the market house and placed on the shelves their own books as well as some sent by friends and relatives in England. Richard Flower, the guiding force behind the library, in one of his letters gave an example of one pioneer's attitude toward books, say research workers of the Illinois Writers' Project, WPA. A Captain, whom the writer described as "a sensible and intelligent backwoods
At Hampton
Henry Peoples
Son of Mr. and MRs. John Peoples, of St. Louis, Mo., who entered Hampton Institute, last week. He is a 1939 graduate of Summer high school, St. Louis. 
Juanita Likes History and Her English