[*Please return*]
NEW YORK AMERICAN AND JOURNAL
Why Washington Leads in Popularity as
[?L], SUNDAY, MAY 7, 1905
a Place in Which to Hold Congress.
BY MRS. JOHN A. LOGAN.
Copyright, 1905, by American-Journal-Examiner.
WASHINGTON is without a rival as
the most interesting place in which
to hold congresses of all kinds. The
National Congress is in session about eight
months of the year. The Daughters of the
American Revolution started the custom of
holding their meetings at the national capital,
since which time other organizations
have resolved to hold their annual, biennial
or triennial meetings in the capital city.
Since January, 1905, we have had the
Mothers, the Chiefs of Police and the Council
of Women's Congresses. They are to be
followed by the Daughters of the American
Revolution, the Nurses of the United States,
the railroad and others that at present I
cannot recall.
The Mothers' Congress probably scored
the greatest victory in the matter of notoriety,
as they succeeded in securing the most
notable persons to address them, the President
starting the question  of the importance
of the propagation of the human species, insisting
there should be more children born
in the United States, without suggesting
any method by which the highest mental
and physical perfection may be reached and 
maintained.
Before the excitement created by the
episode of the President's speech had subsided
the National Council of Women of
the United States convened. This body is 
composed of delegates from nineteen organized 
societies of women. 
The council assayed to take up many important
questions, but from the dexterous 
way in which some of them performed
the "switchback feat" they demonstrated
their striking analogy to many of their
brothers of the stronger sex, by being able 
to be on both sides of a question if policy
dictated a dual position. Among these
were "Race Suicide," "Social Evil," "Woman's
Suffrage," "Child Labor," "International
Peace," "Equal Responsibility of
Father and Mother in Bringing Up Children,"
"Divorce," "Polygamy," "Equal
Chastity for Men and Women," "Promotion
of Purity," "Political Equality and
Civil Rights of Women," and "Peace at 
Any Price." In the discussion of them
there were many brilliant speeches. Some
of the speakers, however, gave utterance
to very extravagant expressions, as the following
from the Rev. Anna Shaw will
demonstrate:
"'Women are beginning to decide for themselves,
and to decide what God called them 
into being for. They will no longer take 
the word of any one. They believe in an 
open sesame between the heart of woman
and the motherhood of God. This they believed
in receiving directly without the help
of any middlemen. Last year in Berlin it
was shown that they are thinking and feeling
their way toward the light. They took
up a new propaganda—that of political and
civil rights for their kind, thereby to bring
all women to Miss Anthony's position. In
church, society, education, home government
they are asking nothing more. We desire
to secure the same rights given to men
in any country, here especially, for there is
not a country in Europe which does not
give great credit to its women. As for
me, I would rather be a free woman in hell
than a bond slave in heaven.
"It is said that women should rear more
children, but I say that you must first
make your country fit to rear children in.
The idea that no matter what an intelligent
woman may do for the race, the degraded
mother is greater, is a lot of sentimental
gush. It's all tommyrot. Motherhood
is noble—quite as noble as fatherhood.
If motherhood is ignoble, it is quite as
ignoble as fatherhood. To make either
noble there must be nobility of character.
Our penitentiaries and jails are full already.
They are there because we have 
talked about the responsibilities of motherhood
and forgotten about the responsibilities
of fatherhood. Children are not as
bad as the man and woman who gave
them their bad blood.
"We need to make this world safe for
children. To do so we must give them a
social heredity, so that they will be born
in safe conditions and protected until
grown. This cannot be until women have 
rights in the State to protect them. We
must have city mothers as well as city
fathers. We desire suffrage as a means
to an end."
Such an outburst from a minister of
the gospel shocks the sensibilities of the 
most irreverent. "A soft answer turneth
away wrath" is taught in the Holy Book,
from which Miss Shaw is supposed to derive
the inspiration which enables her to
lead her people in paths of righteousness.
It was astonishing that the resolution on
anti-polygamy and Mormonism should have
occasioned so much discussion on account of
the presence of delegates from two Mormon 
societies, who have paid their money
and secured the right to be represented
in the council.
When Mrs. Grannis had read the resolution
Mrs. Dubois, wife of Senator Dubois,
representing the Florence Crittenton
Missions, whose work for the children is
nationally known, and who was a prominent 
figure in the recent National Congress
of Mothers, declared that the council
could not afford to keep in it the two
Mormon organizations. "They stand for
polygamy, and there is not a woman of 
you who can afford not to protest against
the seating of Senator Reed Smoot. You
do not stand for the political side alone, but
for the moral side. I want you to think
what Mormonism is doing to the unborn 
baby."
The resolution was couched in eloquent
platitudes to avoid "hurting the feelings"
of the Mormon delegates. Fortunately for 
the honor of the Council Mrs. Dubois was
familiar with Mormonism and all its subtility,
but the resolution had to be introduced
the second time before it could be
voted upon.
How a body of women with so much to 
say on purity and equal chastity of men
and women could hesitate to condemn
the most crying evil of the age or protest
against the admission of a polygamic Mormon
in the national legislature is incomprehensible.
The resolutions on divorce are really almost
ludicrous and have no weight in
the solution of the divorce problem.
A resolution on divorce was presented by 
the resolutions committee and adopted. It
is as follows:
Whereas, Counselors and agitators in
church and State are talking and writing
much against divorce, which is known to
cause most disastrous results in the family
and State; be it
Resolved, That the National Council of
Women seek, through co-operation with
church and State, to interest all organizations
and individuals pledged to social and
civic betterment of the people, to ascertain
what are the chief causes which induce or
lead up to divorce.
Resolved, That we practice and teach better
methods of scientific and spiritual marriage,
which must result in the higher preparation
for offspring.
Mrs. Lucia Ames Mead and Rev. Anna
Shaw, in their advocacy of peace, wandered
into a strange position from a patriotic
standpoint and aroused the indignation of
Mrs. Flo Jamison Miller, a delegate from
theW oman's Relief Corps and whose sacrifice
for her country has been too great for
her to be silent under such heresies.
Mrs. Lucia Ames Mead, president of the
Massachusetts Equal Suffrage Association, 
said : "There is one subject more fundamental
than the injustice to women in regard
to the suffrage. I do not forget that
we are spending as much money upon liquor
as on breadstuffs, and that we have 6,000,000
illiterates in this country, but international
duelling or armed peace is an even
more important evil. That is what is sapping
the economic life of to-day. Europe
to-day in a time of peace is spending for
the preservation of peace a pile of dollar
bills fifty-two miles high and $1,000,000,000 
worth of labor every year. Every taxpayer
and every human being bears the 
burden.
"If we must change human nature to
bring about peace, then let us begin immediately,"
said Rev. Anna Shaw. "We
must train our girls not to admire above
all else brass buttons and stripes, and the
boys must not be trained to think first of
killing something. Teach them both a love 
of peace and not a love of fighting. When 
we teach them that not to fight is evidence 
of more courage than to fight, things will 
be different. Teach them to be kind to 
animals and not to kill them.
"There never was a time when crimes 
and murders were so prevalent in this
Christian land, which talks so much about
governing other people when it can't goveern 
itself. To eradicate it we must teach
our boys manliness and not mannishness."
Miss mead spoke again and went a little 
further in her advocacy of peace. "I would
never let them sing 'the army and navy 
forever,' " she said.
This was a little too much for Mrs. Flo
Miller, of the Woman's Relief Corps of the
G. A. R. "I belong to a fighting organization,"
she declared. "I believe in singing patriotic songs. I
believe in patriotism. I believe in peace, and I believe in it if you
have to fight for it." And then everybody
applauded.
One of the ablest addresses of the sessions
of the council was that of Mrs. Mary
Church Terrell on "Citizenship from a Woman's
Point of View," in which she discussed
problems confronting the women of
her color. She is a woman of rare attainments
and culture and in handling her subject
displayed logic and courage, and without
covering unimportant ground delivered
some strong blows. She told some startling
truths in a dignified and intelligent way. 
There was really more in her address than
in any other given before the council[?]
Barring Mrs. Terrell's address, there was
no new thought, valuable suggestion or proposition
made during the week's session that
could be considered as in any way advancing
any project for the betterment of the world.

THE EVENING STAR.
With Sunday Morning Edition.
WASHINGTON.
TUESDAY...........April 11,1905
CROSBY S. NOYES...........Editor
IN BUSINESS SESSION
National Council of Women 
Convenes Today.
PROGRAM APPROVED
REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING 
SECRETARY READ.
Treasurer Gives Exhibit of Receipts
and Disbursements—Reception
of Fraternal Delegates.
The sessions of the fifth triennial meeting
of the National Council of Women
opened this morning in Pythian Temple,
routine business being considered. The national
president, Mrs. Mary Wood Swift, 
presided, and was surrounded by the following 
members of her executive staff: Mrs.
Kate Waller Barrett, Virginia, vice president 
at large; Mrs. Flo Jamison Miller, Illinois, 
corresponding secretary; Mrs. 
Frances E. Burns,  Michigan, first recording
secretary; Mrs. Isabelle Quinlan, Illinois,
Mrs. Isabella Quinlan
second recording secretary; Mrs. Lillian M.
Hollister, Michigan, treasurer. Others upon
the platform were Miss Susan B. Anthony
and Mrs. J. Ellen Foster.
Among the other women present who
have an international as well as national
reputation were Rev. Anna Howard Shaw, 
president of the National Woman's Suffrage
Association; Mrs. Calista Robinson Jones, 
past national president of the Woman's 
Relief Corps; Miss Sadie American, one of
the famous orators of the organization; Mrs. 
May Wright Sewall, past president of the
International Council of Women, and Mrs. 
Elizabeth B. Grannis, president of the National
Christian League for the Promotion
of Social Purity.
The organizations represented in the conference 
this morning and presenting credentials
were: The National Woman's Suffrage
Association, Rev. Anna Howard Shaw
and Miss Susan B. Anthony; Universal
Peach Union, Mrs. Belva Lockwood; National
Christian League for the Promotion
of Social Purity, Mrs. Elizabeth Grannis;
National Council of Jewish Women, Mrs. 
Hannah G. Solomon and Miss Sadie American;
Supreme Hive, Ladies of the Maccabees
of the World, Miss Maxwell, Miss Van Ness; 
National Association of Colored Women, 
Mrs. Mary Church Terrell, Mrs. Lanton;
Great Hive of the Modern Maccabees, Miss
Emma Bowen, Mrs. Anna O. Hothe; National
Catholic Benevolent Association, Mrs. 
E. M. McGowan, Mrs. J. A. Roger; National
Florence Crittenton Mission, Miss May Gordon,
Mrs. Damars; Ladies of the G. A. R., 
Mrs. Belinda Bailey, Mrs. M. Anna Hall;
National Free Baptist Society, Mrs. Francis
Mosher, Mrs. Lura B. Lightner; Rathbone
Sisters of the World, Mrs. Lydia A. Monroe, 
Mrs. M. Josie Nelson, Mrs. Anna E. Raison;
National Woman's Relief Corps, Mrs. Fannie
B. Minot, Mrs. Calista Robinson Jones.
 Mrs. Flo Jamison Miller, past national 
president of the Woman's Relief Corps, was
made chairman of the credential committee.
Program Adopted.
The program as printed in The Star was
adopted as the rule of the sessions
Mrs. Flo Jamison Miller reported as corresponding
secretary. She said the report
was not so much a "report of what had
been done as a report of conditions and
things that ought to be done." She said
that a little more than three years ago in
the city of Washington she had been elected
corresponding secretary, and returned to 
her home filled with ambition to do great
things.
"Soon after returning from Indianapolis,"
she said, "with my ideas keyed to the
highest note of council work, I was impressed
with the thought that much might
be accomplished, even by an individual
member, if a plan could be outlined and 
worked out looking to the uplifting of humanity.
This may seem to many as presumptious 
in, as it were, a lay member, but
I remember hearing Rev. Parkhurst, in a 
sermon delivered to the members of the
national conference of charities, say: 'The
best work we can any of us do is to do exactly
the thing—usually a very inconspicuous 
thing—that the present moment calls 
for, to do today what today demands, not
work out into tomorrow till tomorrow
comes.' And so it seemed to me I could begin
on the work for and of today. I long
ago learned that however much all might
be willing to help after the movement was
on the road to success, it was absolutely
necessary that some one should start, and
so why not myself, for it would be easy to 
combine with others working along the
same lines if best, or to drop out and let
the more effective worker take the lead.
 "The outline planned was along the line of
the recommendation offered and approved 
by the executive, that a legislative committee
be appointed to assist all movements
looking toward the betterment of the 
laws affecting women and children.
 "Twelve official communications have been
sent to each national association and several
to the local councils. The Free Baptist
Woman's Missionary Association has
been affiliated since our last executive 
meeting. But the Business Woman's Association
has dropped out of our ranks and,
from what information we can secure, out
of existence entirely.
 "This, I am sure, all will regret, for besides
the pleasure of the meeting with the
splendid women who have from time to 
time represented the society at our meetings,
it is to be regretted that the only exclusively
business association should be the 
first to give up its existence. Is this the
survival of the fittest?"
International Council Meeting.
Mrs. Miller referred to the great international
council meeting held last year
in Berlin, at which Mrs. Mary Church
Terrell bore off the honors with addresses
made in three different languages, and
Miss Anthony received marked attention
from crowned heads. She said:
"A short time ago copies of the resolutions
adopted at the London meeting of
the International, and also at Berlin

[*Brooklyn "Union
Feby 16/ 1905*]
COLORED WOMAN A HIT
AT SUFFRAGISTS' DINNER
Most Brilliant Speaker at 
Susan B. Anthony Banquet
Applauded.
Time Coming Soon When Women
Will Vote, It Was Said.
Susan B. Anthony's eighty-fifth birthday
was observed last evening by the 
Kings County Political Equality League
at the Hanover Club, Bedford avenue.
About 200 women suffragists and their
sympathizers were present to pay homage
to the suffragist leader. An immense
birthday cake with eighty-five yellow
candles was in the centre of the guest
table, and for each person present there
was a souvenir programme bearing a 
full-length picture of Miss Anthony.
After a sumptuous repast Miss Craft introduced
the speakers.
Mrs. Mary E. Tieman read a greeting
from Miss Anthony, who wrote especially
for the younger women who are now 
working for woman suffrage, and prophesied 
that the day is near at hand when
women will have recognition at the polls.
Mrs. Frederick Nathan, president of
the Consumers' League of Manhattan, 
alluded to President Roosevelt's remark
at the Lincoln dinner to the effect that
all are citizens, but said he did not mention
women.
Mrs. Rhetta Childe Dorr, speaking for
the press, said that she believed the daily
paper a man reads represents him quite
as much as the company he keeps.
"Schools and seminaries are the places
where women are preparing to take their
places with men," she added.
Mrs. Philip Carpenter brought one of 
her characteristic greetings from the
State Federation.
"The Rising Tide" was the toast responded
to by Miss Sadie American.
Mrs. Mary Church Terry, who was at
the Berlin International Council, fitted 
the gap made by the absence of Dr. Jas.
H. Darlington. She paid a tribute to Miss 
Anthony, who, she said, was probably 
the most beloved woman in this country. 
Mrs. Terry is a colored woman, and spoke
also of the "forging ahead of colored
women."
Mrs. Terry made the most brilliant address
of the evening. She was loudly applauded.
Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt was the last
speaker. She said: "It is no longer
feared that women will neglect their husbands,
or not darn his stockings; but it
is now our mission to keep the public
informed that these scarecrows are made
of straw."
A feature of the evening's programme
was the singing of two solos by Miss 
Bessie Raymond.
Among those present were: Mrs. 
Orion White, Mr. and Mrs. A. Freeman, 
Mr. and Mrs. E. H. Warren, Mrs. Mariana
W. Chapman, Mrs. Stephen Lornes,