THE EVENING STAR,  SATURDAY, MARCH 25, 1905—PAR?

POLITICS IN ALABAMA

Effect of the New Constitution.
[*628*]
PARTY VOTE CUT DOWN

OVER 150,000 PERSONS IN THE
STATE DISFRANCHISED.

General Sympathy of the People With
Republican Policies--Reason of
Democratic Supremacy. 

BY WILLIAM E. CURTIS
Special Correspondence of The Evening Star and
the Chicago Record-Herald. 

MONTGOMERY, Ala., March 23, 1905.
Alabama has a patent new constitution 
which went into effect November 28, 1901.
It defines the qualifications for voters,
which are so severe as to shut out the
great majority of the negro citizens and a
large number of whites from the polls. In
order to vote a man must show a registration
certificate as evidence that he has
fulfilled the requirements of the law and
a receipt showing that he has paid the
poll tax of $1.50 each year. In size and
appearance the certificate resembles a
greenback note. It is printed from a plate
covered with geometrical designs upon indestructible
paper, and is of convenient 
size so that it may be carried in a pocketbook. 
   Up to the 1st of January, 1903, all citizens
had the privilege of registration who could 
show that they had honorably served in
any war or were the lawful descendants of
honorably discharged soldiers, and "all persons
who are of good character and who 
understand the duties and obligations of
citizenship under a republican form of government."
The latter clause was intended 
to shut out the negroes, and it succeeded 
in doing so. Only about 180,000 persons
were allowed to register, of whom about
3,600 were colored. Every person who applied
for a certificate was questioned as to
his understanding of the duties and obligations
of citizenship under a republican form
of government, and the judges had the authority 
to decide whether the answers indicated
a sufficient degree of intelligence to 
justify them in granting the applicant the 
right of suffrage. It was a good deal like
a civil service examination, but so far as
I can learn the rules were applied to illiterate
whites as well as to illiterate negroes. 
Registration certificates are very highly
prized. Thousands of citizens have framed
and hung them upon the walls of their
houses. Others put them away in strong
boxes, as if they were stocks and bonds, 
for if they are lost duplicates are difficult 
to obtain. The colored people prize them
most. It is considered a distinction to hold
a certificate. A man who has the right to
vote in Alabama, of whatever color, is
looked up to as a superior being, because
the law shuts out all riff-raff and tramps,
white as well as black. The defenders of
the new constitution consider this very
important. They think it will stimulate 
the aspirations of many negroes to secure
an education and acquire property. 

Increasing the Requirements. 

After the 1st of January, 1903, the requirements
for registration were made more
strict than before, and now include educational, 
employment and property qualifications. 
In order to obtain a voting certificate
since that date a man must be able to 
read and write any article of the Constitution 
of the United States in the English 
language; he must have been regularly engaged
in some lawful employment, business, 
occupation, trade or calling for the greater
part of the twelve months preceding the
date he applies for the privilege of registration 
unless he is physically unable to
work; or he must be the owner, in his own
right, or the husband of a wife  who is an
owner in her own right, of forty acres of
farm land or real or personal property assessed
for taxation at $300 or more; and he
must show evidence that the taxes upon 
such property have been paid. He must 
also show that he has paid his poll tax of
$1.50 for every year since the 1st of January,
1902, or since he became of age. 
There is also a long list of disqualifications.
No man can vote who has been convicted 
of crime or misdemeanor, or who
lives in adultery, or who ever sold or offered
to sell his vote, or ever bought or offered
to buy the vote of another, or was ever
convicted of election frauds, either at the
polls or the primaries. And any person who
pays or offers to pay the poll tax of another
person or advances him money for
that purpose is not only debarred forever
from voting, but must serve from one to
five years in the penitentiary. The registrars
of election are required to publish the
lists annually and to revise them for the
purpose of striking out the names of persons
who shall die or remove from the
county or become disqualified for any reason. 

Over 150,000 Disfranchised. 

It will thus be seen that the right of suffrage
is restricted in Alabama to a very
small and select body of citizens, including 
only those who can read and write, those
who are engaged in steady employment, and
those who pay taxes. It is estimated that
from 150,000 to 200,000 citizens of lawful 
age have thereby been deprived of the franchise. 
It is declared [?]


called "an organized appetite. " Men take an 
active part in politics only for the purpose 
of securing an office; hence republican politics 
is disreputable and decent men will not 
act with that party.
   The negro is out of the way. The new
constitution has removed him from politics.
The negro voter is no longer an objection.
The democratic leaders say that they are 
now willing to encourage negroes to vote, 
because to obtain a registration certificate
they must be educated or acquire property,
and thinking men believe that in local politics
the colored taxpayers will be divided 
between the two parties, if they are guided 
by their own personal interest.

,
The lawyers claim that the constitution 
will stand any test to which it many be subjected.
The registration law has already
been before the supreme court and was
thrown out on account of lack of jurisdiction.
The main question is likely to come
up at any time, but the ablest jurists have
no fear of the result. Thus the race question
may be considered as settled in Alabama, 
and the elective franchise is limited
to the intelligent, thinking men of the
state; the business men and professional
men and the educated classes of mechanics
and other wage earners. 

General Sympathy With Republican 
Policies. 

The sentiments of nearly one-half of the
democratic party, I am told (and this includes
the most influential business and
professional men of every community), are
in sympathy with the republican administration
on the financial question, on the
tariff, on its Philippine policy, on its foreign
policy, in its efforts to build a Panama
canal and to encourage ocean shipping by
subsidies. One of the most prominent 
democrats in the state said this:
"Our people like Roosevelt as a man, although
they kick about his appointments 
down here. One-half  of the democrats sustain
him in everything he has done--Panama
and Santo Domingo included--and the
other half would do so if it were necessary."
While discussing the personality of one
of the leading democrats of this state, a
very intelligent young woman remarked
that he was a republican. Her father dissented.
Whereupon she remarked:
"Why, papa, I have heard you talk politics
with him many a time and you agree
on every subject. He believes in everything
you believe in, and you are a republican, 
aren't you?"
"You're right, my child," was the reply. 
"We do agree on every subject; but he's a
democrat and I'm a republican;"
"How many such democrats are there,
do you know, in this state?" I inquired. 
"Pretty much all my acquaintances are
in the same boat," was the reply. "If they
lived in the north they would all be republicans,
but here in the south it is not
considered respectable to belong to that
party, even with the negro question out of
the way."
"It is possible to build up a republican 
party here," I asked. 
"Yes; if the present organization could
be abolished and the present leaders permanently 
suppressed." 
This is the opinion of every person I have
talked with, democrat or republican, and
it is remarkable how often you hear people
say that McKinley would have split the
"solid south" if he had lived to serve out
his term
The democratic party is hopelessly divided
into factions; it has no principles 
that are not obsolete; it has no issues that 
are popular; its leaders do nothing but criticise
the republican administration, and that
does not commend them to the public All
contests for office are settled at the primaries. 
A nomination is as good as an
election. The new constitution applies to
primaries as well as to elections; hence
it has reduced the numerical strength of
the party at least one-half. 

PLACES OF INTEREST.